Great car, just what I expected and am very pleased with just about everything on the car. This is an Autobahn with 6-speed and shifts like a dream. For some reason the rear hatch washer leaks on the hatch window when open and leaks when the hatch is closed. Been to selling dealer 5 times and tech support has been contacted. Per tech, installed Tiguan check valve and the thing still leaks washer fluid. Anyone else have this problem?Looked for a car that had the utility of a four door hatch and was fun to drive - the GTI beats almost every other car on the market in the Fun-To-Drive category. There are some great forums for this car and some cool mods you can put on it. I'm getting 30 mph even when I drive it like an F1 car. Fun, Fun, Fun 'til my wife takes the GTI away......... Oh, yea - don't forget the Launch Control. It's a blast with the DSG and makes the car, with the paddle shifters, the coolest little hatchback on the planet.Have had the car for 2 mo. What a great ride! I was looking for comfortable seating and 4 dr. The seating issues ruled out the Honda's and Nissan's. The doors ruled out the Mini. The car has taken a bit of getting used to the ride (a bit stiffer than my 97 Golf), but the control and response will just put a grin on your face every time. That and the fact that this ting gets up and scoots. All this and I just got 33 mpg on a recent trip up to northern CA. Averaging 26+ combined driving over 2k miles on the car. Go VW.Had the car 2 weeks and have nearly 2K miles on it, wont be driving it that much after the summer. I sold my 2001 182K mile Passat on Craigslist in 36 hours and was looking at a 2007 Lexus IS250. Tried to make 4 different deals for the lexus's but no one wanted to budge. Got fed up and went back to VW and got a the loaded GTI autobahn package for less than a 2 year old lexus. Apples and Oranges I know but I do enjoy the GTI, had many many compliments on it already. The sport seats are a little narrow and took a while to get used to but now I quite enjoy it. Hope the quality rivals the old Passat, that car would have been good for another 100K.I really wanted a smaller car, with decent gas mileage, good performance and a somewhat upscale feel without spending 40K. I also need a back seat for occasional passenger transportation. I looked at the civics, and just could not do it, it's seems like a kids car to me, I also looked at The toyota corrola (better gas mileage, but the most boring vehicle) absolutely no fun to drive. After test driving the GTI, I was sold, it was perfect, sporty, but comfortable, easy power, not a brute, easy to maneuver in the city, quick acceleration for passing and the best interior of the cars I tested. I'm 40 years old, and this car is a blast, but also very practical.I traded in my 2008.5 Mazda 3 Hatchback for my 09 GTI. After driving my wife?s 09 Rabbit I was sold on VW's build quality and driving dynamics but wanted something sportier than my 3. I absolutely hate the boy racer look of the new 2010 Speed3. I got an amazing deal on my GTI and haven't stopped smiling since I parked it in my driveway. The new GTI is one of the best purchases I have ever made and have zero regrets trading in the Mazda. Volkswagen has earned a life long customer from my wife and me with their fun to drive, reliable and well built vehicles. The GTI satisfies in every way. From the precise handling to the punchy 2.0 Turbo engine and quality feel, I could not be more pleased. The GTI is a great all-around sporty car. Good power, no turbo lag, good handling, nice interior with lots of room, good fuel economy, and it feels & drives like a more expensive vehicle. It may not have the outright power of a WRX, but the refinement and fun are a great combination for me. It handles great, is quiet going down the road, and I'm getting mileage in the mid-20's around town. It inspires confidence on back roads, and never feels like you are asking it to do something it doesn't want to.I have had this for a few weeks and I can say it is a very fun car to drive. I was a bit disappointed that there was no bluetooth. Everything feels very solid and I can say the seats are very comfortable. I would opt for the 6 manual, but I have heard from other owners that the DSG was a blast. I am not a big fan of the plaid...so I opted for the leather...more power options for the seats would be nice and I dont like the roll switch for the heated seats (but they do work good). I had one major issue I got the 18in wheels and sunroof package and with such low profile tires 250 miles I hit a pot hole and had to replace the tire. I've had my GTI for about 7 months now, and I still get excited every time I get behind the wheel. It's got the style, performance, reliability and practicality covered, and it doesn't break the bank to own one. Great car!Engine is first rate with very little turbo lag and it has great torque throughout the RPM range. Handling is very good for FWD car and DSG transmission is awesome. Lightning quick shifts. Interior has nice materials and good ergonomics. Seats are great as is the steering wheel. VW got the big stuff right with the GTI. Unfortunately, the little details are what they missed. With only 1,000 miles on the clock my seat squeaks, my dash squeaks over every bump, my rear hatch rattles over bumps and there is an engine rattle between 2500 and 3000 RPM which is an issue with other MKV GTI's too. Unacceptable in a new car. I heard VW has terrible quality control and now I believe it. Very fun to drive. Handles amazingly well on windy roads. Braking is good enough. Great engine noise. No turbo lag whatsoever. Has all the power you would ever need in a front wheel drive car. Love the horseshoe wheels, though I got the 17" ones since I parallel park so much (already have some marring). I had a 08 Rabbit before and all the little improvements are completely worth it. I'm nervous about the resale value and long term reliability being a VW, although I like this car so much I can't see parting with it while it still runs. Plan to have it for a long time. Very easy to park in the city being a small 2 door hatch. OK I have owned my 09 GTI for one week and find it not only a sharp and comfortable but great performer or run it smartly to get great gas mileage. Mine has the six speed auto and I find the shift petals on the steering wheel not only a great location but fast response from the gear box. My GTI came loaded with leather seats Satellite radio and many more features which makes for a very comfortable rideFirst thing I noticed is that this car isn't as fast off the line as the 1.8T I had (04 Jetta GLI). It had an upgraded ECU, but even with that turned off it was quicker than the TSI 2.0T that is in this new car. This is probably due to the fact the MK5 is a much bigger car than the MK4. Other than speed off the line this car is my saving grace. It is much smoother than the MK4 Jetta I had, and on long rides it's so nice. Manual is a must on this car. Also, I should have gotten the upgraded stereo because sometimes I just want to rock out that 6 free months of Sirius (could sound better) Do NOT get additional ipod adapter plug in that is in center console. GET JUST THE HEADPHONE JACK!!I just got my '09 GTI, and LOVE it! I traded in my '06 Audi A3, which had the same engine, and many similar features, but the GTI feels so much sportier. The engine is great, and DSG is awesome. I still have to gently break it in, so look forward to the day I can really test the limits :)Wanted a sports car wife, wanted 4 door SUV. Great compromise, handles like a sports car, fun to drive, gives us 4 doors and a little room in the back to carry stuff. Very responsive. Fun to drive good solid feeling and safety features. I recommend to anyone. Great price for a lot of fun and safety. We needed to upsize from my 2 seater to something our growing family. The VW can hold 5 for lunch or 2 adults and 2 kids comfortably. My commute is 35 miles each way, this thing is great for moving through traffic on the freeway. It has a quiet interior and solid feel. The ride is superb. While some of the competition is stiffer and rolls less, that is a very low percentage of the real world driving needs. It is fun to drive in a nicely composed package.I needed a city car, for down town Toronto driving -so we bought the DSG - finding myself using the paddles more often, to get the responsiveness I want . Love the car - beats driving the Mini Van ;)Just bought my GRAY 09 GTI this morning. Didn't go for the DSG, which costs 1200 more. Like the manual gear, just like in Germany. Very responsive and fast. the suspension is hard so you might feel a little bit bumpy. Like the SUNROOF and 18" all season tire. 24K is fair enough for such a car. Just bought right off the truck yesterday! Fast, responsive, limited torque steer, and corners well on the 18" summer tires. AC is a bit weak in the Las Vegas heat (117 degrees!) but that's not normal summer heat for most. My other car is a BMW 330i and the VW is as much fun to drive...I do miss some standard luxuries such as built-in Bluetooth, but for 24K I'm not gonna be picky. This car is well built, solid, and performs as a German engineered vehicle should. Turbo lag is nonexistent for the most part, and the 6-speed tranny is descent, a little long on the throw distance. (I bought the standard not the DSG). Good by overall, I would recommend it to the budget sports buyer.I was concerned about buying a hardtop convertible, but I bought the EOS knowing how well VW builds cars. So far, early on in ownership, the car is solid and exhibiting no leaks. The car is a good value for the money. It is not a styling standout, but the design is nice looking. The interior is typically German, all business. What is great about the car is that is overall very solid, handles well and has decent mileage from a very peppy engine. Although, a small car, it feels very safe and secure and I am glad I bought it.I was a little worried getting into this car because of the reviews about the not so sporty steering, I disagree a whole lot! Its so much more fun then then the chrysler sebring hardtop or Pontiac G6 hartop! My favorite features are the great sound system and the HUGE sunroof with pop up wind blocker. For the money its worth it! I live in Michigan and i must say it turns heads, i love seeing the people in awe when i bold off the line! Also i get 25 mpg in mixed driving! The other day i had the sunroof open and i was doing 100 on the highway and it felt and sounded like 65! If you can live without 5 seats and a smaller trunk this car is perfect for You.This is my first convertible, and I was a little concerned about the problems that are typical of the breed- -wind noise, cowl shake, etc. I have been very pleasantly surprised by how this vehicle performs. Yes, there is some wind noise, and it's not quite as "solid" as a sedan, but I'd definitely purchase this car again. It's so much fun to drive, and gets great gas mileage. My Eos, that I loved, is sitting in Al Johnson Volkswagen repair shop and is going to stay there. I have 12 sheets of repairs. Volkswagen has tried to be very accommodating, but now lets see when I get to settle. I traded my 2000 Camaro Convertible with 22,000 miles, I am really upset that I traded my car for that piece of junk!!!! NancyLong story short: I leased my Volkswagen EOS April1, 2009. Today is August 3, 2009 and it's been in the shop 3 times (STILL THERE mind you) for the convertable top malfunctioning OVER AND OVER AND OVER again. It stopped mid-air in a parking lot and wouldn't open all the way OR close all the way! I had to get a Flat Bed to take it to the dealership! Now VW wants to replace the ENTIRE roof! It's 3 MONTHS OLD! And, this is the best part, they are telling me that I MAY HAVE TO PAY FOR THIS. It's $8,000 alone just for the top! I am PETRIFIED to drive this car anymore and I don't want it anymore. The aggravation I have been through is appalling. It's STILL in the shop for the rest of summer!!!We bought this car a few months ago after looking at many cars. The EOS rocks!! She said, 'I never loved a car, but I love this one.' High praise, believe me. It's a blast to drive. Dr Jekyl when you need to be conservative, Mr Hyde when you want to cut loose. It's early on, but the car has been consistently quick and solid. Future collectible here, would definitely buy again! I put 13k on it so far so good. Absolutely no-issues. I was driving a VW passat earlier and wanted to get a convertible, SAAB, VOLVO and EOS was in my list. With the price , quality , handling and look we decided to go with EOS. Excellent gas mileage Highway I even got 35MPG. Loved vehicle, but came from factory with air conditioner condensation draining into cabin causing inches of water, mold, and stench. If you are considering buying this car, make sure the dealer checks this in their final inspection/prep. Transmission also needed work ~ 4,000 miles. Great car and gas mileage (avg 33.3 mpg highway) besides these problems. Comfortable for long distances... I was going to reward my self with a new car and thought I would go with the Sky but after driving decided too small. Happened upon the VW EOS by accident and so happy I did. I even thought about going Certified Pre- Owned Mercedes but kept going back to the EOS. After I test drove the car, I was hooked. Its such a beautiful car and it is fun to drive. I'm not use to not having more storage but I'm sure I will get use to it. The car is amazing!I had no idea how fun a car could be, until I bought the Volkswagen Eos. I can't stop driving this thing... It makes driving fun again. I should have purchased this years ago. The Eos has the same solid feel of your typical Volkswagon with the added luxury of being able to put the top down. The car is peppy, gets very good gas mileage and feels good to drive. Excellent sound system. My kids and their friends all beg for rides in the car. It has been a great experience!!!Traded in my 2004 Saab Aero convertible on the EOS. This car has the best turbocharger I have ever experienced. I always have proper power and torque. In fact if you stomp the accelerator from a standstill, the car will hop as a result of excess torque. With Nav, I paid $33K for this car - thousands less than any other quality convertible and I am averaging 29 mpg in the first 2,000 miles of mixed driving. The seat are exceptionally good (I have a very bad back and can tell!). The only criticism I have is that a power passenger seat is not standard although it is not that big a deal. VW has the best priced lineup of any car manufacturer.Very cool car. No other has a hard top, a drop top, and a sunroof. It is fun to drive, pretty comfy,everything is layed nicely and to be able to go through the car wash is an added plus. VW builds quality! Gas miles ....WOW like 30 in the city! Buy one you will be so happy you did. We wanted a convertible for years. We considered and drove the BMW 128i, Porsche Boxster, and Mercedes 350 CLK. On vacations we rented Sebring and Mustang Shelby convertibles. When we discovered the EOS on a trip to Arkansas, we bought it on the spot and left our Acura RDX at the dealer. We continued our vacation in our brand new EOS and had a blast. Consider it a 1200 mile test drive! The person who wrote Edmunds review saying the car could not handle the twisties must be faking his reviews in my opinion. I also own a 1985 Porsche 911; the new EOS driven in Sport mode with the DSG handled every bit as well as my Porsche. The car definitely has German DNA and was FUN, FUN, FUN!!Same problem as poster JLM.Totally dissatisfied and would not buy it again. Car in dealer for at least 10 biz days for a problem that I believe VW know about all along. The DSG transmission is the culprit and appears in all VWs-not onlyt he EOS. Check the VWVortex website for similar stories. I wish that I had before I bought this mistake.I searched for a convertible for 6 months, researched endlessly an honestly barely considered the VW-then I drove it and fell in love! My husband had owned a Corrado & Jetta Wolfsburg yet I never thought much of them. I am now a VW convert. The hardtop is significantly quieter than every other convertible I drove. The turbo has amazing pick up and makes it incredible fun to drive (I have never thought any car was fun) Nice sound system and great interior. Purchased base model w/ 17 inch wheels. Great fun to drive. Plenty of pick-up with turbo. Slight hesitation but then it really moves. Compared with BMW 328 but glad I went with Eos. Saved alot of money and enjoying the car. Give this car a try and dealers are willing to deal right now.Had the car for about 3 weeks and could not be happier. It's the perfect combination of sporty fun and practical comfort. The convertible hardtop is stunning to watch and will sell you on the car. Interior noise is what you'd expect for this car ... unlike the soft-tops I drove that just were too loud with the roof up. Get the upgraded floor mats ... adds a nice touch. The Komfort trim is VERY well equipped. The Lux version is a considerable premium but some items, like steering wheel controls, are useful. I really wanted to reward myself with a hardtop convertible- just wasn't entirely sure which. Once I saw and test drove the Eos, I immediately fell in love. It's the perfect size, picks up fast (thanks to the turbo engine), is the only hardtop with a sunroof, and the style is sleek. The only complaint I've had so far is since I bought it towards the end of winter, I've noticed that when it drops below freezing, condensation builds up inside the car and freezes on the windows. The gas mileage is not GREAT, but i guess we should expect that from a turbo engine! I've had my Eos 3 mos and really enjoy this car. Comments: the top is amazing - attention getter - same as on much pricier models - mine works great & used a lot. Moon roof great & huge for the car, handles on mountain roads well. Light car, acceleration to spare, good brakes, fun! Quiet ride (top up), sound system good for the price. Lots of people stop me to compliment/ask about this car - really. And I live in a car lovin town. That was a surprise. Glad I saved that BMW money and got this sweet little ride. Love it - recommend it highly. Fun, good-looking, great convertible top. One thing, got hit in driver's door. No repair parts are avail., so slow to get Euro parts at plant.I purchased my Black on Black fully loaded EOS in October and gave it much thought, it was totally the right choice. I have read a TON of reviews on the '07-'09 and here are tips for those who have had issues. You need an excellent dealer with VW fans in service, the prep work needed on this car is extensive. I test drove several and only two dealers seemed to have it prepped right. My car has no issues at all. Also you cannot wash this car under 40 degrees or you will mess up the seals, plain and simple. If you do not have a garage I would not buy an EOS. You have to be patient with the car, the window move to get in and out be gentle. '09 DVD Nav is worth it too if you drive aAfter almost 3 months of owning a new EOS I am still happy with the functionality of the sunroof, it has good torque throughout the RPM range even compared with other turbo engines, it has very good speakers but lousy sound unit (premium) but the worst for me is how it drives. You have to be really delicate to avoid the car spinning like crazy when you start. I have the upgraded 17'' wheels with Continental tires and that has helped little. So at the end it dissapoints because the engine is great and the DSG gearbox is amazingly smooth but the car is not sitting on the road as it should and can become dangerous because of the big torque it has for its size.I love this car. I have a new 2009 color-gold/silver, not the official name, it is beautiful. Everything works well, very quiet and I get lots of looks. I love having the moon roof so I have a great sun-overs car all year. The only thing I don't like, is the movement of the windows after you turn the car off- they go down a little before rolling all the way back up. This is bad in a rain storm. I would recommend this car to anyone who had considered buying a convertible. It is better than a convertible with the sun roof! It gets great gas mileage so I don't mind the premium gas.Sorry there are "lemons" . Fortunately, I am one of the lucky ones. I have been in search of a convertible for close to a year. I knew I wanted German technology, retractable hard top, front wheel drive if not all wheel,and some updated technology like a navigation system and ipod adapter. What you can get loaded in this car is a just a starter price in BMW or Audi. Audi does not yet make a hard top and BMW does not have front wheel drive in the class. The retractable hardtop has a panoramic sunroof that opens..the only convertible with this feature. They have corrected the "whirring"with small windscreen above he windshield. Technology of top closure:priceless. Gas OK.The car is very fun to drive. I have never had a convertible in my life so I was not to happy when she brought it home. I figured it is her car and she will be the one driving it so get what you want. She loves it. The handling is good and speed is fine. Does it have wind noise. What can you expect when the top comes off. Great car overallI purchased a 2009 VW EOS 8/30/08. On 9/29/2008 a valve that measures the clutch temperature malfunctioned. If the clutch is too hot "safety measure" the car can?t change gears. This malfunction occurred while I was on the freeway; I was almost hit by a semi trying to pull to the side of the road. It was like I put it in neutral and revved the engine, every light in the car flashed indicating a problem. I was initially told that my problem was a faulty engine switch. This diagnosis didn?t make sense. I had to demand to speak with the head mechanic for my concerns to be taken seriously. This value malfunction also causes a pressure problem in the transmission. I have contacted a lawyer.I've always wanted a hard-top convertible ever since I saw one two months ago. I generally assumed that it would be way out of my price range, but when I found out that Volkswagen made a hard-top convertible, I was totally 'hoodlumed'. It turned out to be not only very reasonably priced but it drives and handles really well. People will also be very surprised by the roominess of the rear seats. The back is definitely big enough to hold two average sized dwarfs or a couple of medium sized farm animals. My automatic transmission shifts very smoothly and the engine definitely holds its own on the highway. Overall, this car is a pleasure to drive. Style is obviously good. But the interior (radio and environmental) is not that impressive. The fan comes on full speed with a twist of the temp control and other buttons/knobs... I find it pretty annoying. The leather seems pretty cheesy. If you put something lightly heavy on the seats it show an indentation forever. I have the std. Speaker system installed. The sound quality is not horrible, but its pretty bad. The speedo is also off by one mph. At night the interior lights do night dime enough. It gets pretty bright once your eyes adjust to dark. A real looker. Nice exterior and interior. Nice engine sound, good performance and decent fuel economy. Enormous trunk. Water leakage issues, water infiltration in rear taillights and mirror lights, fixed by dealer. many dash rattles.I started looking at this car because of it's looks and also I like the idea of having a coupe-like sedan. The most impressive thing's about my CC so far is the build quality, the attention it receives and the fuel economy (avg 28). I usually suffer from some buyer's remorse when I buy a car, but not this time. I just bought this car to replace an Infiniti I30T and I couldn't be happier. I had test driven the Lexus ES, BMW 3 series, Maxima and a few other cars and chose the CC for its styling, peppy engine (the 4-cylinder 2.0T is much quicker than the 6 cylinder I had on the I30), and price in comparison to other cars that were less sexy, had fewer features and were $5k to $10k more. I get more compliments on this car than others I have owned and people often wonder what type of car it is. I would definitely recommend (and have recommended) this car to others. I've had my VW CC for 7 months now and I'm still in love with it. Not only does it perform and ride well, it's an attention getter. However, the issue of water retention in the rear doors is annoying. With every heavy rain, I'm opening the rear doors to release the water, and checking the floor for wetness. I have already put over 10,000 miles on my new VW. I searched for awhile before purchasing it. I looked at new Honda Accord, new Nissan Altima, a used BMW 3 series and many more, but decided to go with the VW CC. This is the first VW I have ever owned. I have had it in the shop a couple of times already. The first problem was the speedometer was fluctuating. They replaced it with a new one, but I do notice it is off by one mile from the electronic display. The second and major issue is the doors are holding water. The back right side door especially is holding water. They are not sure how to fix it, but I did hear a service bulletin is coming out on this issue.This is a great car. $70k style with $30k price. 2lt turbo is adequate. 4- seat concept is nice. It developed a water leak inside but VW of America called me to bring to the shop to have it fixed. They know now the door seals accumulate water and are fixing. Great styling outside and inside. Good motor. turbo boost. Great seats. I'm 5'9" married no kids and car is perfect for us. I looked at the Mercedes, BMW, Audi, and Acura's. The CC looks better than all of them, and has an incredibly large trunk, with a back-seat that also folds down. The technology package is awesome - even accepts a mini-flash card for music, and play's DVD movies while waiting. Another cool feature is the "auto-hold' brake. It automatically holds the car until you press the accelerator - great in rush hour traffic. This is a great car and excellent value. It's design will last at least 10 years or more. This is a wonderful car! VW has done a great job. Sleek,total head turner. I love that it has no model on the outside.One major flaw is water holding in the doors.Especially the rear doors. I noticed it immediately. After being washed or rain it holds in the doors. It will soak your shoes. Waited to have it address at the first free maintenance (10K). My area experienced a lot of rain a few days before taking it. I happened to notice the water is now inside the car. Back right floor board is soaked. I let the service man experience the woosh of water in the svc bay. They found water in the front as well. Now 3 days in the shop. They are clueless at this point. Send me suggestions!The last Sports Sedan I owned was a 2004 Acura TSX. In my opinion, this car blows it away on performance and handling. From the satisfying grip of the steering wheel to its solid handling and acceleration, this car is a winner. I could feel the difference when I drove a new TSX and a 2010 Ford Fusion Sport. Two months ago I didn't know this model VW even existed. I can't understand why VW hasn't marketed this car like it has some of their other models. You have to test drive this car to really appreciate what it has to offer in terms of the driving experience. Simply amazing. I have had the CC for two weeks and have about 700 miles on the car with no complaints what so ever.As a 2 Passat owner, I would say this is definitely one of the best Passat VW ever build. It's not for everyone but a irresistible one for people who appreciate German engineer at a reasonable price. I can't help with a smile on my face every time driving it.It's a great looking car, fun to drive and makes you feel really good on the road! Everything about it is perfect, has all I wanted. Bought the CC after unsuccessful attempts to find Jetta TDI wagon. distinctly different from my 03 passat,the CC looks great. the ride is typical VW firm,the interior is 9/10s Audi.seating is much better d/t power adjustments.I've always driven Man. trans-so I thought I'd do so again. After 2 test drives, I felt auto seems more appropriate. The vinyl (leatherette) feels fine but is probably not as durable as real leather. All in all a very sleek, comfortable long- distance cruiser. I got this car on Saturday. It is a pleasure to drive. I love having a manual transmission again. The engine is very responsive. I got 29 MPG on my first tank of gas. Why would any buy the six cylinder?5/7 220lb no problem getting in/out, plenty leg/head room. Drver Seat setting allows ample leg room rear seat rider. Config of the dash controls, 1st glance, easily found/used while driving. Over done interior electronics most I will never use. A good reason to get the warranty. VW should offer VR6 with less fluff. If they did I would have purchased that model instead. Performance/handling quite good both in twisties & on the slab. slow at the starts. Rougher back roads reminded me I was in a smaller car. Performance/steering wasnt inhibited crests/valleys are felt more. Mirror/through window views unobstructed. Ill be back with an updated review.Follow-up review. 5 alignments, 4 new tires, replace rack & pinion component, balancing, 5 test drives, different technicians and only 1500 miles. What can I say, "lemon". Even after test drive with service techs and service manager which in fact concurs with me that car still pulls to the right. Service manager and VW rep states that this normal and is within specs. I say if this normal for this type of car it should be revealed to the customer, I myself wouldn't have bought it, who wants to buy new expensive tires and alignment often? if you do own this type of car, give it a test drive focusing on how straight the car drives when letting go of the wheel momentarily. Safety, utmost concernbought car beginning of August. has been in shop longer than it has been at home. Alignment problem, let go of steering wheel and drifts drastically to the right. Service guy has been much help, even though 3 technicians have tried to resolve problem. Latest attempt was to replace all tires, another alignment, and balancing. We'll see what happens. Haven't had time to really test drive it myself since I've been out of town on business. Will keep you posted. Really like the style, inside and out, but we'll see.Is it so wrong to want to sleep in my car? I went from a SUV to this, and it is a major shock. I can now accelerate on every corner instead of braking. It's very low to the ground, so it will take me a while to get used to. I bought the VR-6 Sport Blue Exterior, two toned leather interior with Nav, etc. I love the ride - very comfortable seats. The Nav system is awesome so if you can get it, do so. I'm a bit of a techie so there are plenty of buttons for me to push to satisfy the need. Yesterday I found out I have a USB port in my glovebox. I have a rearview camera that shows what's behind me when I go in reverse, and has lines to show what my path is depending on my wheel position. So, I had to come back to Edmunds and write a review. We debated over the CC, and the somewhat comparably priced entry levels from Lexus, Infiniti, and Audi. Hard choice picking the VW over the "luxury" brands, but I have to tell you that it was definitely worth the name plate trade off. Extremely well built, solid car; very fun to drive, with a lot of pep for a 4-cylinder; like others have noted, unlike the entry level luxs, you will get plenty of looks. So many people have stopped my wife and me and asked what type of car it was, or just complimented the style and look. We bought a luxury model fully loaded (backup camera, bluetooth, nav, etc.) in the blue/gray. Would recommend to anyone. I bought the car in February but waited to put a few thousand miles on the car before writing the review. The car runs like a dream and the 4 cyl turbo is all the engine great around town and on the highway. The interior is a key component of any car I purchase and I have to say I absolutely love the interior. It rivals the interior of any Audi. The exterior is beautiful and turns heads everywhere. I bought the shadow blue with the two tone interior and its a real pleasure to have in my driveway. I regularly drive 200 miles between NY and Pennsylvania and can only say the car is rock solid at speed (autobahn like). Around town smooth and responsive. Previously owned 2004 Acura TL. Buy it.This is the best car we have owned. Drives great, looks great. Gave it to my wife as a birthday present. She loves the blue color and the numerous features the car has. We have taken it on two trips and it has done great. People stare at it when we stop at lights and restaurants. VW has done a great job on this one. This is our third VW. Happy Driving!!I cannot give this car a fully neutral review, because I have a design problem that ruins the ownership experience for me. After any significant rain fall, the doors fill up with water that does not drain out until the doors are opened. The problem is particularly bad in the rear doors. A full day after a rainfall, if you open a rear door for the first time, water will gush out on your feet. My local dealer knows of no known fix for this problem and I have read of this problem elsewhere on the net. When winter comes this water will become ice. This problem is too big to ignore or tolerate. Caution !Amazing car. The performance/luxury/value equation on the CC Sport (or Luxury) is very high. The amount of style (beautiful inside and out), performance (sub 7 sec 0-60 with the manual), fuel economy (30+ on the hwy and 24ish around town), and standard features puts this car in a class by itself. It really stands out on the road in a sea of forgetable family sedans. The get up and go has really surprised me; you find yourself over the posted speed limit in no time and the power delivery is so smooth, you would never know this is a 4 banger. Build quality is top notch and even the standard radio is solid. The one down side...the steering is a little too light. Otherwise, well done VW!Came off of lease on a Lexus RX-350 and was looking for something less expensive with better mileage. Was seriously looking at the Passat wagon when I caught sight of the CC, sat in it, and ultimately test drove it. That was it...sold! I have owned other German luxury sedans... Audi, BMW, and currently a Mercedes E350 (our other vehicle). From an engineering and design standpoint, the CC is a home run for VW and the best value in the industry. Remarkable acceleration from the 2.0L turbo 4, great handling, beautiful design inside & out. If they could have made the sunroof retractable, this car would be near perfect.This is an absolutely outstanding vehicle in all respects. Having owned every major luxury brand - Posche, Mercedes, BMW, Acura, Lexus, etc., this might be the most enjoyable car I have ever owned. It is aesthetically nearly perfect in design, pulling .93 lateral G's, it corners like it is on rails, has a beautiful engine with great sound and flawless transmission and ergonomics only the Germans can design. This is an incredibly well balanced car in all respects. In addition it receives the highest ratings by the IIHS in frontal, side and rear collisions and is one of their "all star" picks. What else could you ask for?drives great. The AWD car has wonderful road feel. The car is comfortable. Its unique, you do not see yourself coming and going. Only negative is the roof line, i.e.,rear seat passengers need to be reminded of roof line so they do not hit their head getting in and out of car, front seat needs to be as low as possible to make it easier for anyone over 5" 8" to get in and out as well. Once in, very, very comfortable all around. Only other real negative for me is that phone book does not download to bluetooth system. Overall, this is unlike any VW I have ever been in (Other then perhaps the Phaeton). I would prefer a dealer network more like Audi, BMW or Audi but like lower $.I had already decided on a CPO 2008 S80, when my wife saw one of these on the highway. She sent me a photo from her cell and said , "You've got to buy this car!" After seeing this gorgeous car in person and a 20 min test drive, I was sold. Picked it up the next day; White Gold 2.0T Luxury, moon roof, Sirius, extra mats for $29k. MSRP was 34695. Invoice was $30110.The CC has the looks of the C-class, but for half the money. Even the back seat is larger than the C. I bought the black on black Luxury with Technology package and BlueTooth. We wanted the better MPG than the 6. So far, very happy. Haven't figured out the hard drive yet, but, you can watch a DVD on the NAV screen. Pretty cool.Traded in my old dapper 2003 Passat V6 4Motion for this bigger, wilder animal. V6 is extraordinarily responsive and gets better mileage than I feared-- about 30 on the highway, maybe 15 in town, a few mpg better than my old Passat. Although steering gives less feedback, as others have said, it corners precisely and enthusiastically while the wide, low tires grip tenaciously. Slaloming at high speed on twists and around corners at night, watching pivoting headlights track is a sublimely James Bond movie experience. No defects after 3-plus weeks. Ride is a little busy, but comfortable seats absorb little bumps well. Much appreciated front legroom, good GPS.I too am on my third VW (Jetta, Passat, now CC). I love this car. It looks and feels like a much more expensive car. The outside styling captivated me, but I love the way it handles and the sleek interor as well. Great soundsystem. So far my gas mileage is running on the high end of the range. Once I drove this, I dropped all thought of a more expensive BMW.I have only had this car in my garage for a few days - I too think the styling, performance (for a turbo 4 cyl.) and overall level of quality is great for a vehicle at this price level. I am very pleased so far and will update this review in a few months. However, for $32K+ the owner's manual leaves a lot to be desired - what's written and what I've got don't always seem to be the same. No information on the stereo/radio/sat/CD is provided and that's a bit of a frustration. Apparently there's no Blutooth cell system that uses the MFD or at least that my dealer was aware of. The panoramic sunroof is a waste of material. I still think this a great car even with a few shortcomings.If you're in the market for a sleek, classy & sporty sedan without the high $30K price tag - this is undeniably the only choice. A comparably equipped Altima, Accord or Camry costs more, yet this car easily matches the A4, 3 Series and IS in quality and style. I pulled up to my bank the day after I bought this and this gal pulled in beside me in her new 3 series. Her buyer's remorse gaze at my new ride as was unmistakable. This car wants for nothing in style or performance. If I wanted a monster fast sports performer, I'd buy a GTR. This car has everything and then some - all for $10K less than the usual suspects. The Sport trim is an amazing value. The turbocharged 4-cylinder mated to the six-speed manual transmission produces sub 7-second 0-60 times, yet I got 33 mpg on my first road trip! The build quality is first-rate, comfort abounds, and it's an incredibly beautiful car just to look at. I can't wait for the parking lot comments!I used to drive a Mercedes SL500 (priced around 105,000). Switching to VW has been a great experience. Mine is a Basic 4 cyl.The car is just great! Exterior and interior design is fabulous. I get a lot of compliments for the car. I certainly recommend it.I bought the CC 4cyclinder 2.0 model about 3-weeks ago. I enjoy the attention the car gets and the sleek look. One major drawback is the car doesn't absorb bumps well and it's not a comfortable ride at all. I have not read about any suspension problems. Feel trapped in a beautiful car with a not so comfortable ride. Also, the gas mileage is so good. Not getting 20 mpg at all. Backing up is a nightmareBought the car yesterday, fast fun and a REALLY cool exterior design. Only issues are interior storage, the door storage area is a joke. Rear seat middle area would be better served to seat a 5th person, also the rear could have easily had dual exhaust like on the 6cyl instead of one side on the 4cyl. But oh well, love the car through and through! Out the door price was $28k. Same car as the Audi a4 for the most part except it's $5k cheaper...My third VW, I've gone from Jetta to Passat and now to CC. In the transitions I was a bit disappointed in the Passat (like most 90's VWs, it had its electrical problems). The CC restores my faith in VW. My wife is a BMW gal and she loves this car. The ride (in stop-and-go, on country roads or highway) is a lot tighter than her 535. The standard features are incredible (could use a better sunroof though) for a car in this price range and the tires and rims that come standard need absolutely no upgrade. Within the first two months every single person who rides with me in this car or even sees the car in a parking lot asks about it. I would definitely recommend this, just negotiate a good priceWoW! I am totally blown away with this car. The manual Sport Model is perfect. There is no better car out there for the price of such German Engineering and Avant Garde Styling. If you appreciate handling, performance, European styling, this is the car for youI was not going to buy the CC becuase of the tilt only sunroof. Decided to buy CC Sport at invoice and try aftermarket Webasto 735 Sunroof. Cost $1,295. Very happy. Has more features than any factory roof I have had on Audi, Acura and Lexus. Automatically closes when ignition turns off. Car is great. People constantly ask if it is a Mercedes and are shocked when you tell them VW. 2.0 T is very resposive, smooth and quietI owned a GXP with 303hp before this car. It had much more raw power, but this car can move for it size good pickup. The ride of the car feels a little more upscale, and the design of the car is what made me take a second look at VW. PS still miss the GXP however I bought this thinking it would be a good compromise to the $76,000 CLS price. Was I sadly mistaken. Dont get me wrong - it is a very fun car to drive around town but not very stable on the interstate. If you are in the market for a standard sedan , this is a great car to consider. However, if you are used to the BMW and Mercedes quality, don't be fooled by the flashy appearance. It still does not match their quality in detail. For the price of the fully loaded VR6, you could easily get into a nicely equipped BMW or Mercedes and be much more satisfied. I have traded my CC for a 2007 CLS and have no regrets on the decision. Only consider this if the 2.0 option is your choice.After five months of ownership, this 11th VW in my driveway has not disappointed me in any way. Fuel economy combined after nearly 7000 miles is 31.1 mpg. Quality/workmanship is excellent, comfort for driver and passengers (front and rear) excellent. Easy to expand the trunk space (although not a wagon....). The 2.0T engine is not only great with respect to fuel economy, acceleration is fabulous, engine noise minimal. Better than the V6 that I've owned. 6-speed manual is smooth and makes driving fun. Sound system is very good. Only (slight) negatives (that one knows after a test drive): View to the rear is challenging at times, and limited seating capacity may be an issue to someThis exceptional styled sedan meets most acceptance points of any auto out there today, as a previous owner of a DTS [FULLY LOADED] cadillac I miss the softer ride only, however the CC has all if not more extras than the Caddy. Thats the good news folks...the not-so-good points are a User Manual that is NOT so "user friendly" (many smaller titled booklets in one binder) that you are constantly fumbling from one to another to find the info needed, & most [if not all] the driving control feature set-ups have to be programmed...a real nightmare! I use a computer every day and can only imagine someone that don't have some computer skills saddly will end up not using many features available.I am a recent college grad. who just started his first real job, and needed a new car. My old car was on its last leg, so I started test driving everything (Camry, Avalon, G35, Mazda6, Altima, A4). I was all set to lease an Altima, but the CC was my last car to look at, and it blew me away in person! In my opinion, it is one of the top 3 or so best looking cars, regardless of price. I have already had 5 different strangers come up to me and ask what kind of car it was (nice ego boost by the way). It's a blast to drive, and nice to have a "worry free" warranty that lasts for the life of the lease (3 years, 36K mi.).I was originally looking at the Jetta SE then I saw the CC Sport on the dealers floor and decided that it was a no brainer that the CC was the one to buy.After purchasing by CC I had the ECU upgraded by APR. Increased the Horsepower from 200 to 252 and the torgue was increased from 207ft pds to 297 ft. pds. It's now one quick cars. The perfomance is now truly awesome.I get compliments all the time people are always asking me what kind of car is itComing from a Ford family is was hard to purchase a car from across the pond but I am glad I did. My last two cars were ZX2s and did a great job getting me though college and graduate school but moving to the CC is a whole new story! This car is just so tight and responsive compared to any Ford I have ever driven including the Mustang. This car is even nicer than my fathers LS and my wife?s MB. Only thing I would do different is get the car in Black and get the Nav. Not sure why some people post that they are getting bad gas mileage? I do a lot of highway driving and average 27-30MPG (probably due to the six speed).Best for the money, loaded, more extras than expected, rain sensor, auto lights, and so force, two tone leatherette is super nice and does not get dirty at all unlike the real leather, very practical way of spending, base model trully rolles!!I was not a VW fan prior to seeing the new CC. After seeing the CC, I bought it without test driving due to a snow storm. When I was able to pick it up 3 days later, I was impressed. The car handles better than the BMWs I test drove and is more esthetically pleasing than the G35 sedan I almost bought. The manual is so fun and smooth. A passenger in my car commented that they almost forgot it was stick! Seats are comfy, styling is hot, Love this car!!! I have owned virtually every model of BMW for the last ten years. Decided to stop feeding my cash to the bavarians to only have them keep pushing my price points up and value down. I purchased a Black on Black CC Sport, Auto, Sirius, the "leatherette" is superb, and at this quality, leather is a waste of money. What a wonderful car. The fit and finish is impeccable,the styling is modern and fresh, the drive is excellent. You do get a little of the front wheel drive pothole suspension behavior, but it doesn't detract. My mileage in the first thousand miles on freeway is 31.5. I purchased the car for $2500 under sticker. Amazing car for the money. VW has a new level of respect from me.AmazingVery smooth and comfortable, good acceleration and handling, great fuel economy with manual transmission. One of the best cars that I have ever owned.Terrific car for the money, love everything about it. Would have liked the nav radio with bluetooth but that's the only concern. Great gas mileage and the 2.0t with manual is great.The car guzzles gas. It does not get anywhere near the posted mileage specs. The dash rattles. The cornsilk interior collects dirt easily and is difficult to clean. At night, the interior looks like it has the measles -- a lot of little red lights everywhere but the icons are far to small to make out. The owners manual is absolutely horrible.Great value,Fun to drive. Very comfortable, feels like a sports car Great pick up for a 4 cylinder. I traded in my 2007 Mustang GT/CS for this more "practical car". Quite honestly, I was out with my wife on a nice Saturday and went into the local dealer to look around. Took the CC for a test drive and was sold. I have only put about 100 miles on her due to a major blizzard, but so far, this car far exceeds my expectations. Thanks to the storm, I have managed to read the entire owners manual, twice. The dealer experience was also a joy. No haggling or arguing over my trade. Dealer tossed in spash guards, installed, as part of the deal when I asked for them.I have to say that going from a Mercedes to a VW I was a little skeptical but when I saw the car and test drove it I was in awe. I have to say that it drove faster and handled better than the $50,000 predecessor I traded in for this vehicle. I have to say this is a bargain and the best bang for the buck. You surely will not be disappointed. Trust me!I have had this car for 2 weeks now and cant tell you how deeply satisfied i feel, this is a car of my dream, i have been researching for 4 months before leasing one, CC is a true head turner,i have a friend who bought an 09 Mazda6 i Grand Touring about 6 months ago for 28G +3.5G for the reems, and i could not enjoy his envious stare more when he first saw my CC, and whoever sees our cars pays no attention to his vehicle, its so mush classier for only 28G, grate job VwI had posted a partially negative review below, in which I complained about my new CC's steering feel and response. (I loved everything else about the car.) I finally decided something HAD to be wrong. I took the car in for service, and the dealer found it needed a new electronic power steering controller and a new steering rack. The car drives very differently now. The steering is tight and responsive -- no complaints whatsoever. In fairness to VW, I wanted to update my review. I am a very satisfied customer and strongly recommend the CC to anyone and everyone looking for a top quality, fun-to-drive, great looking sedan. I found the Sport to be the best value out there for your money right now. I jumped on mine as it had extra features that seem to be available with earlier build CC Sport Models, which include Auto dimming rear view mirror, auto headlight wipers, auto-on headlights, puddle lamps in the side mirrors, and power passenger seat. Some of the very first models came with a memory features for the driver seat as well, but mine did not, which was fine. I was able to find the 6 speed in my color and I was hooked! I currently have about 800 miles on it, and it has been a blast to drive! It has excellent pickup, gas mileage and comfort. I feel like I bought a high end luxury car! Test drive it!!!What an amazing car. Fantastic ride, interior, and comfort. A totally amazing experience. VW has a winner here. My wife and I drive the CC and can't help to notice the attention the car gets. On the very first day I got the car, I had 3 people stop me and ask about the car. I went from a Honda Pilot to the CC and what a great move. One word describes the VW CC - AMAZING!What an amazing car. Fantastic ride, interior, and comfort. A totally amazing experience. VW has a winner here. My wife and I drive the CC and can't help to notice the attention the car gets. On the very first day I got the car, I had 3 people stop me and ask about the car. I went from a Honda Pilot to the CC and what a great move. One word describes the VW CC - AMAZING!I too looked at everything available, and went to VW on a whim. I was sold on the CC before I even drove it. The price point is amazing, the features are above those offered in the same class level at the price. I have only had it 2 days, but can't wait to get in and drive. Have been waved down 3 times in the 30 hours I have owned it to ask what it is. Love that it has no real markings, other than the VW logo. People think its a Benz.Great Car. My first VW was an 06 Passat, great engine, great dependability, no problems or issues in 41,000 miles of daily commuter service. Drove a new CC and found it rode better, was quieter, and of course looks great. Gone is the "wallow" in higher speed corners that was present in my old Passat. CC has a tighter feel all around. Traded in my 2000 A6 2.7T on the CC. I am very pleased with the of the car overall. While not as luxurious or powerful as my old Audi, it's hard to believe this car can be had for under 26k. It looks and feels like a much more expensive car and the 2 tone leatherette interior is top notch. The clutch is very light and the 6 speed manual is satisfying. This is a great car! I hope it proves to be reliable long term vehicle. That was my only concern repurchasing from this German brand. It's in the details. This car compares to cars much more expensive; like BMW, Mercedes, and Audi. The attention to detail is outstanding. Every where you look it is finished off with high quality materials and exceptional design thought behind it. The ride is silky smooth, yet the handling is awesome. Handles awesome in snow, a lot better than my Honda Odyssey. If you care about details and high quality, this is the car for you, unless you want to spend 20 grand more for the same thing with a fancy name.make a test driving and bought it in 20 min. I like the total new style. This car feels like luxury car. The price package was very attractive ($37140), which was below invoice price. What a gorgeous car! I was deciding between the CC Luxury and a 09 Audi A4 Premium Plus. The CC was a few thousand less than the Audi, but the cars are actually quite similar. The CC LUX edition has beautiful leather seats, and all the conveniences of an entry level luxury car. Although Bluetooth is optional and runs about $300 dealer installed. The car drives like an A4 with ample power from the 2.0T engine. Handling is superb. This is my 3rd VW in the past 8 years. Also owned and A4 for awhile. This is probably the nicest, most well appointed, and best handling out of all 4 cars. You can get an entry level CC for around $25K+ which is quite a bargain as well. The CC is the best vehicle out there for this price point. From the beautiful lines to the top-notch interior this is one excellent vehicle. I looked at everything out there and nothing compares. I got mine for just over 24,000 with the Automatic.This car has made my parting with my 17 year old SAAB 9000 Turbo 5M a lot easier than expected. The looks, sport ride, electronics, etc., etc., are outstanding. It's so quiet I have to watch my speed!! The 4 banger with the 6M is a great match. The thought that has gone into the interior lay out is impressive. I am quickly bonding with my "baby blue".Memory seat was one of my reason to choose this car. But,after purchasing my cc base model, I found out Edmunds.com provided wrong information in available features. Memory seat is not standard in base model. it is available at luxury and above models. I am disappointed about Edmunds.com's accuracy but extremely enjoying my new cc. I am just wondering about comment below by "Liz" sounds like memory seat for base model(2.0L 4cyl Turbo 6A)This CC has caused a sensation at work and the car wash; people want to know what it is since there is no name on the car. I've only seen one other on the road. The quality and reliability (thus far) are vastly superior to my former Passat. Standard features compare very favorably to baseline Hondas, Toyotas, Minis, other German autos, etc. Heated seats are wonderful on cold mornings. The two tone interior gets envious stares! Power memory for 3 seat settings works well for each of us in my family.As a four time BMW owner, I had some anxiety about purchasing this car. However, no longer. The ride is sporty-stiff. Driving this vehicle is fun -- whether you're loafing along or having a little fun in the sport mode. The design is so innovative and fresh that people comment. Faced with the choice of BMW, Mercedes or Infiniti -- I am thrilled to report that two months with this car has been great. Only two things to consider: because the car is so low, entry into the vehicle might be difficult for some people AND the sunroof only tilts -- What a car.Easily beats any MB, Audi or BMW in the same price range, has a great number of standard options included, handling and power are very good. Great leather seats and ergonomics. Was very surprised when I did the test drive.I work for an Audi Dealer and find that the CC is superior in quality, especially in the doors. The doors are more solid, the handles inside and out have a nice feeling of strength and have a luxury tactility. The standard features of Auto headlights with coming home and leaving home, rain sensing wipers, self dimming rear view mirrors, bag hook in trunk, and a 6 cd changer on the CC may only be had in an A4 with a $4000 package! The styling is very unique and very seductive and intriguing. The interior is very luxurious and very well thought out. Everything lies in an intuitive spot. The steering feel is better than the 09 A4, and the handling is tighter as well as more compliant.Having recently moved from Germany, this is my first car in the US. And while I really love the CC -- kudos for the other reviewers who I concur with on all the pros and favorites -- I had to make a hard compromise: In Germany, all VWs have manual transmission by default, automatic being an option. Here, stick shift isn't even an option (except in the Sport trim, which doesn't allow the selection of sunroof, dynaudio or navi options). Yes, we're in the US but I would like to give VW a gentle nudge about heritage! As soon as VW fixes this, I'll replace my current CC! Side note: Why is a headliner called headliner? Maybe because your head touches it if you exceed 6 feet on the back seat :-)I have had my CC,Lux, 2 litre for 2 weeks now. It is a blast to drive! The 2 litre engine is plenty powerful, and there is no need for more. Manumatic transmission is fun and quick. The handling is tight and responsive, and it is remarkably quiet on the highway. I am coming from 12 years of Acura RLs. The seats are extremely comfortable and supportive, the back seats are big enough for my two teenage girls. Biggest downside, so far, is that there are large blind spots over the left and right shoulders. Rear seat headrests get in the way of my wife's view out the back. Mileage, so far, has been 27 highway (averaging 80 mph) and 20 around town. Not yet broken in, though.Proud owner of a CC Sport model. Was going to buy an Accord EX-L. Bought CC instead for less money and it is so much more car. Nothing at this price point rivals this car. The car is a dream to drive. Great acceleration at any speed and superb handling. The fit and finish is impressive as well. Such a simple, straight-forward dash design. Everyone asks what kind of car it is. No one can believe it is a VW. I set out to buy a practical family sedan (2 kids) and bought a thrilling sport sedan/coupe instead. Love the seats, front and back. Again, for this price, nothing comes close. Iron Grey is a great color.I am having a love/hate relationship with my CC. The interior and exterior styling are dramatic and pleasing. I have never gotten more "thumbs up" and favorable parking lot comments. The build quality is first-rate. The turbocharged four delivers great performance with truly amazing fuel economy. The value for the money is absolutely out of this world -- nobody sells more car than this for the $27,000 I paid. The dealer experience could not be better. But I am being driven to distraction by the artificial, electronic power steering, which alternates between totally numb and far too much resistance. Traded in '06 Accord Coupe EX 5-Speed. Great value for 6-Speed sport. Little details with regards to interior and exterior styling make it feel like a luxury vehicle. Also considered Accord EX-L, Subaru Legacy, Mazda6, Malibu, Fusion, & Acura TSX. This was the best value based on 4-Door Sedan, 6-Speed Manual Transmission, styling, leather seats, etc.What a great car for the price. It?s great on gas millage, considering its size. I also give VW a lot of credit for the design. The ride is quiet, and comfortable. It feels like a firm car and yet it?s very responsive to the road. 2.0 Turbo delivers great gas mileage and ample power when needed. Interior is nicely designed with controls adequately placed at driver's reach. It?s roomy for the driver and passenger with a lot of extra trunk space. The passenger seats might be a tight fit for someone 6 feet tall. Overall great job to the designers of this fun, yet sleek looking VW CC.Handed in a 2006 Subaru Outback 3.0R (great car) and picked up a V6 4motion black on black beauty last week, having chosen it over the Audi A3 S-line, MB C300 4matic. The VW is a dream machine in the snow, very powerful and elegant looking. Even my son and daughter whom wanted the snob appeal of Audi or MB said......we like it after a 2 hour blast to the ski hills of Mont-Tremblant over the weekend. Just bought the CC and it is my 3rd VW. I'm simply speechless that a car can make me feel so good. I have test driven everything the 2009 market has to offer - nothing compares to this car. VW is known for its obsessive fan base and the VW-esque type of handling you experience when driving one. This car blew me away at the dealership and I signed that very day. People are getting whiplash when passing them by in this car. The only way I can describe it is that it looks sooooooooooooo much better in person...actually appears to have a cape or cloak of some sort like batman. Ridiculous handling and power. Kudos VW....customer for life. Just bought the 09' CC. Drove BMW,Mercedes and Audi. Have owned BMW and Audi - But no more! This is an amazing car! The build quality exudes German pride! The interior is phenomenal - the design is unlike anything else we looked at (at any price) and it fits like a glove! The 2.0 turbo is amazingly powerful and smooth... Did not feel it was necessary to go to the VR6... The list of standard features is impressive! The C-Class MBZ doesn't even offer heated seats standard... If you are even considering a MBZ, BMW or Audi - You MUST drive this car! No regrets!!!! Even the buying experience was nice - good job VW!Just found this car when I was about to turn in my 530xi, and by every measure, it is MUCH more refined and luxurious than that car, at about 35% less cost. Styling inside and out is superb, and just about every time I get out of the car someone is asking what it is -- no one can believe it is a VW. Absolutely stellar for the price, or even several thousand more. Anyone considering any of the German/Japan luxury marks should take a look at this, you will be utterly amazed.I was looking to buy a new car and liked the Nissian Maxima, However i decided to shop around and look around. While online i came across the Volkswagen site and saw the new CC. The Car looked great on the web. I decided to take a look in person and WOW the car looked better up close. I was sold, the only thing left was to test drive it. The dealer was closed so i came back the next day and the test drive was perfect i could not believe the power this car has. I called me wife and told her this car is bought. The dealer added the Nav system and that put it over the top. I get nothing but compliments about the car and you don't see this car at every stop light, like some cars.I ended up trading my 03 Passat GLX, which I loved, yesterday due to original transaction problems. Still in awe that this gorgeous car was so affordable. I have always been a automatic/sunroof kind of girl but the manual/no roof is perfect! Do not even miss the sunroof as the roof line is lower than traditional sedans, it feels like you are in a cockpit! Love, love this car!! I had just purchased a 08' Passat when I found out about the CC. The pictures do not do it justice. I was having my sons Rabbit serviced when the first CC's arrived. I just had to have one ended up trading in my wife's 06'Bug and gave her the 08'Passat. VW hit this one out of the Ball Park! Most people confuse it for the CLS the looks I get are just like when the new Beetle came out. Do yourself a favor and test drive one you won't be disappointedI went to the following dealerships in search of a new vehicle: Lexus (E300), Mercedes Benz (C Class), Volvo (S40/60) and Acura (TL/TSX). While at the Acura dealership, I turned and saw the CC. Test drove it that day and bought it the next. The interior/ exterior styling made it unique. The others cars may have more power, but the CC made up for it in price. I've owned a Jetta, the New Beetle and now the CC for about a month. This car will definitely make buyers consider VW. I purchased the sport trim w/ Bluetooth+Sirius radio. I traded in an '01 Audi A4. The car is overall superb. The car rivals the BMW/A4 models in the 30-40k class even in the sport model. Outside: The car looks better in person. The aesthetics are more in-line with a Lexus IS250 as opposed to a VW. Inside: Regardless of what trim you select the car comes with numerous amenities normally expected ala carte. Pay close attention to the standard list. The 2.0L turbo 4 cyl engine is deceptively powerful in tandem with the transmission. Even the non-leather V-tex seating has a leather feel to it. Leather wrapped steering wheel, power adjustable heated seats, climate control...I traded in a 98 Passat w/ manual transmission. Having owned it for 10 yrs, you can imagine how much I enjoyed the drive. The 09 Passat CC is amazing. It looks great and brings a smile to your face while driving it. It has the solid VW build and all the German engineering that you would expect. The tiptronic transmission w/ "S" gear is fun but not quite as exhilarating as a true manual experience. But, wow, what a car. I bought the true Sport version without any added options offered on the Luxury version. It really has everything you need for a nice ride. I was looking to buy a Dodge. Went to the dealer who was a Dodge / VW dealership only to find they closed the Dodge dealer. While there I took a look at the Passat. Nice car until the dealer showed me the CC. I was sold before I had the car out of the driveway on my test drive. This is a solid car, lots of power, comfortable and one of the nicest cars on the road. I have been told it looks like a Mercedes, Volvo and Audi. People are amazed its a VW. This car is sweeeet and a blast to drive. How come I never knew about this car before? I am glad i looked in the VW dealership. I just bought this car yesterday, so this is really first impression review. I was looking to purchase "performance" car during last month and so. Checked few options such as BMW 328/330, G35, Civic hatchback.... finally I was standing to buy G35, but then VW CC arrived and I responsible buyer I went to check cheaper option ~36k of G35 vs. ~31k of VW CC. What I found is that although front wheel drive CC sticks to the road just like a shaving gum on my window. Even bad quality of Californian roads hasn't changed feeling of amazing sport style driving. The sounds weak 200hp engine actually deliver superior momentum of 200+ available since 1700rpm. So feeling is almost like 360hp G35.I am so glad I took the time to compare. I've been an Infinity owner for the past 6 years but decided to test drive the VW CC bfore my next purchase; and "Thank God" I did. I've only had my new CC for 2 months but I feel like it's a test drive each morning just going to work. I love my VW and the solid feel it gives me. I just feel safer and sportier in it.Lease was up on my 2006 VW Passat; been waiting for the CC but test drove everything under the sun in the meantime. The CC is everything I'd hoped it would be: exterior build and interior fit are exemplary. The car is fast and for the most part rides smooth (the run-flat tires make the ride a tad rougher). The navigation and satellite radio are a definite upgrade from my 06 Passat's navi. My mom and I were sitting in the car last night watching Indiana Jones on DVD; the sound was amazing and I don't even have Dynaudio. VW got this one right.I've been a VW driver for many years and when the CC came along it was love at first sight. I bought the Sport/MT which is the base trim level. I can't believe all the standard features that it comes with, all for under $28,000. All my friends are green with envy.Passat 06 up for lease; just bought the CC last night (11.12.8). While waiting for the CC to come out, I test drove everything under the sun (AccordCamAltSaturnBMWMerc)for the past year, and I still came back to the CC. It's fun to drive, and is easily the most stylish of all the Passats. Excellent interior fit and finish. Like one of the other reviewers stated, it's not for everyone but if you're looking for something different from the standard Passat or some of the other sedans out there, it's a great value. And yes, it does resemble the Mercedes CLS. There I've said it. Just bought it, so I'll check back with another review when I've had it for awhile.I have to say, when considering our first minivan, VW wasnt at the top of my list. However after reading thhe reviews here we decided to look. The first impression was shocking, WHAT A VAN! Great features for the price. Very fun and comfortable to drive. My wife who was resisting falling into the minivan crowd actually was so happy with this van she demanded we purchase it. We chose the SE w/RSE and there was an additional package that included the power rear lift gate and sunroof.I purchase VW Routan this year and immediately noticed during the first week that the van pulls to the right. Took it to the dealer and they tried few things but no luck. They balanced tires, installed new ones and still the issue still present. I have contact VW customer service and reported to them of the problem. There is also a passenger side sliding door problem. The door will not stay latched open at incline. Overall, not happy with the van. I owned odyssey before and this van doesn't really compare well to Honda for the drive.The 3.8L engine is horribly underpowered and the transmission is too anxious to find a home in 6th gear. Trying to accelerate to get on the freeway leaves me depressed as I watch the fuel gauge race to the left faster than the car gains speed. The ride is smooth and the entertainment features make a ride of any duration tolerable. The interior features are pleasant and the exterior looks eerily similar to the Dodge and Chrysler. We bought our minivan three months ago. We have put on almost 3500 miles traveling long distances (NJ to NC and back) and we love the ride and ample storage ...our kids love the rear ent system . My gripe is with the design of the DVD player and the environment controls...too hard to read when driving. Yes I know this is a T&C with German suspension however I wish VW had input on enhancing the dash. I wrote a review shortly after purchasing this van. While I still like it, I am very disappointed that we have to get ALL seven seats replaced because they are all tearing at the seam...even on some of the seats we don't sit on! First the passenger seat went and they replaced that seat. We went back to the dealership (not the dealer we purchased from - I am sure we would've gotten better service from them but they are much farther away) 2 months ago to show them the rest of our seats. We are still "waiting" for the parts to come in. I hope this doesn't happen to everyone else...I love my Routan SEL. The ride and the steering feel different enough to get you excited. It's not a Ferrari, but at least it doesn't drive and look like a Mommy wagon. The power doors are a godsend. So are the wireless headphones. The only drawback in my case is that they supply 2 headphones but I have 3 kids. I also like the 3-zone automatic A/C. The 4.0L gets the best gas mileage of all mini-vans sold in America, according to the EPA. I'm not seeing that kind of gas mileage yet, but the engine only has 950 miles on it, and most of our driving has been less than 10 miles at a time.We just picked up our Routan and we couldn't be happier! There is NO CHOICE in my opinion when shopping for a minivan in this market. The alternatives are aged, bland and BORING. If you want exclusivity - get a Routan. It's gorgeous, handles superbly for a minivan, loaded with what you need, oozes techno gadgetry, reasonable price and 0% financing. For us it was an easy choice. The tough part was choosing a color.We previously had a 07 Odyssey. We got the 09 Routan for the 0% financing, but have been blown away with how much we like it over the Honda. Driving down the road, it is far quieter. The drive feel is awesome, they nailed the suspension. This is a small thing, but the buttons for everything are in the right places, easy to find and use in comparison. We started out with a Voyager, Montana, Uplander, Odyssey, now Routan. The only negative thing I can find in reviews is that people resent that its a partnership with Chrysler and not pure VW. Get over it, this is an awesome minivan.I swore I'd never drive a minivan. Hate the way they look, hate the big size, hate the soccer mom stereotype. But then I met the Routan. It drives like a dream and was worth overcoming my hangups. Hubby says he feels like he's floating (tho only the SEL has the bigger engine). It is as beautiful as a minivan can get. Seats are very comfortable, handling is precise and nimble, and the VW styling is quite nice. Great cargo hold behind front seats; easy bluetooth with Uconnect; nice tailgate seats in back; plenty of cupholders, electric outlets, storage. I really wanted the RSE for the kids, but we couldn't afford it. Instead I bought 2 tablet style dvd players with headrest clamps. Perfect.I have never owned a minivan and was suspect to performance. We have owned this for about a month and love it. Took it on a road trip over a weekend, put about 1000 miles on it and it felt great. Extremely comfortable, and instruments easy to use. Nav system is a must with interactive traffic redirection. Am getting about 15 mpg in the city and 25 on the highway.We have had to bring in for service once as condensation was building inside the headlight assembly. The transmission is smooth, but with 6 speeds the gear ratio makes for a lot of shifting.I have had my Routan for exactly 30 days. On day 28 I was traveling with a friend and 5 kids. The transmission acted up and wouldn't go out of first. We were stranded in small town. Mind you my van only had 1050 miles on it. Anyway, the good is VW roadside was Awesome, they picked up the van delivered it to the nearest dealership and are fixing it now. They gave us a rental so I am impressed with VW service. They are replacing the valve body on my van and hopefully there will be no more issues. I love my van and am very hopeful nothing else goes wrong and this was just a fluke!This is a nice van and I am happy with it for the most part. I do wish the two following improvements arte made. 1) needs to be a bit sharper on handling and have a more european ride 2) where is the wonderful 3.0 TDI engine to improve economy?. I bet sales will double if that engine was available. Just purchased my new VW Routan last weekend as part of a cash for clunker deal. Have an SEL w/trim pkg 3 and navi. This will be our 3rd minivan since '90 (a '90 and '97 Dodge Gr Caravan) and so far like this one the best, lot's of little extras, comfy seats, great power and ride. Only rated it an '8' on reliability as we had a 'no-start' situation this past Monday but this is the reason for the review -- VW's roadside assistance arranged a tow to the dealer who handled it quickly -- it turned out to be loose connections in the master fuse panel. We have multiple cars so it was no bother as well as they updated the navi system once a complete check of electrical was done. Great job VW!Any one who is in the market for a Minivan should consider the Routan. We traded in a 2006 Kia Sedona for our Routan and the Routan is a far superior vehicle. The Kia creaked, rattled and squeaked over every bump, but the Routan is rock solid and quiet. The seats are very comfortable and the highway fuel economy at 25mpg is very good for a van (Kia's best was 22). Our kids love the dual dvd player. VW did a nice job of improving upon the Chrysler van. Interior materials, ride and handling are better. I would recommend spending the extra money and getting the SEL pkg. The 4.0 engine is very strong and the 6 spd auto is buttery smooth. I vowed to never own a Chrysler product have having 2 lemons. So far nothing major has gone wrong. The brake petal squeaks, the doors are creaky, and the back bumper panel is coming off. The entertainment center is top notch, one of the best I have seen. the storage is great. Gas mileage has been horrible, 14 MPG in the city and 22 MPG on all freeway driving. I am getting better gas mileage in my truck.My Routan now has 9,500 miles, but so far so good. I recently traveled 156 miles (according to MapQuest) with a full tank. During our travel I stopped at a gas station at the destination and filled up the tank again out of curiosity--exactly 3 gallons was consumed for the 78-mile (one-way) trip. My Routan has averaged 26 MPG on HWY. I'm not sure whether it improved because of my mild driving habit or the expensive gas from Chevron. Still, it is awesome to know it has better MPG than Toyota Sienna and Honda Odyssey, even w/ its VCM Feature. This van has also been very comfortable--a typical asset of VWs.After extensive research, we opted with VW 2009 Routan SEL/w RSE because of the interior design, engine, reputation of German vehicles, offered discounts and largely for the 0% (zero percent) financing for 72 months. Although we like the Van, the Chrysler/Dodge engineering prevails over the VW quality and reliability. We owned the vehicle for a little over a month and we already have few problems. Within a week of purchase, the Van starts making a huge cloud of smoke and oily mixture comes out of the exhaust pipe whenever the engine is turned on. The dealer said that the PVC-valve has to be replaced in addition to few other things. Then when it rains, water gets into the headlight assemThis is my first mini-van and I am more than happy. The price was very fair compared to competitors and the ride is so smooth. Visually, I believe it is the best out there.We bought this van a month ago and have put over 2000 miles on it already. It rides and performs very well and I would recommend this to anybody. The rear entertainment system or VES as they call it is the best with two boys. The van is comfortable to ride and handles very much like a car. We test drove the Chrysler and then the VW and wow what a big difference. If anybody is looking for a minivan you must look at this. VW was offering some great rebates on the van as well and we saved over 10,000 dollars off MSRP!I have owned my 09 Routan SEL for around 4 mo and about 4000 miles and disappointed does not begin to describe my state of mind!!! My brakes have been squealing since about the 1000 mile mark and it is "normal" according to a qualified technician. Both of my sliding doors have given me numerous problems, including not closing properly and I have come back to a vehicle with an open door. Gas mileage is atrocious. This vehicle has been a nightmare to deal with (especially with two young kids). Yes it is beautiful, but at what price? We have the Routan for 10 days now and are very happy with it. Glad to have the 4.0l engine. We are from Europe and had a VW Eurovan TDI. Unfortunately this not in the US lineup. The Routan might be german tuned, but still gives a American ride feeling. It ist very comfortable and quiet.We love this Van. It is roomy, quiet and so comfortable that my little one will fall asleep in minutes right after she gets in the van. We have tried Odysey with too much road noises and don't like the design of sienna. The SEL model is well equipped. This van is an eye-catcher! There is not a single thing left to want on this van. Harddrive, folding 3rd row (power), and more storage than a cargo ship. The A/C in the 3rd row is just as good as the front and the fact every door is powered, incredible. If you're looking for a van, and you don't check this out, you've seen nothing but the average. LOOK at this superior vehicle... HOLY SMOKES!I was impressed with the introduction of the Routan, as my wife and I love VW and we own a Jetta we went for the routan to be our family car. we never thought we would ever get a minivan but we did as the routan is very stylish inside and out. we got the 4,0 V6 engin and it is worth it as the 3.8 had slugish acceleration. the van is fun to drive, lots of room, sun roof but no Entertaiment system.. it was worth it to get the bigger engein as that can not be changed once bought.I've been an Odyssey driver for the last 5 years. When my lease was about to end I though I would lease yet another. But after checking out the Routan, I made the change. Sure it's a redesigned Chrysler, but you literally have to see and drive it to believe it. Dollar for Dollar, you get SO much more with this vehicle. Toss in the 0% financing and the $1000 conquest rebate (for converting from a Honda) and the other cash-back programs and it's a smarter use of your dollar.I think most professional car reviewers forget that most people who buy a minivan want features, space and comfort. The Routan has it all and it looks better than its Chrysler cousins both inside and out. Drives better too. The second row seats may not have the flexibility of the T&C but they have more comfort and the storage is still there which is the biggest selling point for me. I do wish the second row seats could be adjusted forward and aft but my boys (the third row occupants) are happy their sister can no longer squish their legs. I drove just about every minivan on the market and the Routan had the best mix of looks, comfort and features. Cheaper than the T&C and Odyssey too.I get 400 miles already..its my first new car and Im so happy with mine..I get 2 kids and my mother..all of them cant be happier with our van..every thing is great..roomy..softh..strong..cool..good price..all the toys..blue tooth..sattelite radio..2 tv screens plus 1 radio/video screen..30gb hard disc..compatible with ipod..power doors..power seats..every thing..good cuality materials...what else u wants ?This was a great purchase, its the first care I purchase in a while since I have been leasing. I never thought I would say this about a minivan but after drinving it I have to say that it is fun to drive this mini-van. Lots of room for the kids and adults. Need to get screens for dvd, hope they make it standard on higher sel model, but even without it the kids love it. My wife never thought she would drive a mini-van, but she loves our routan. Would highly recommend it for a family. Go with the 4.0l v6 as I felt the 3.8 was quite weak for my standards, but the 4.0 got a kick to it, make sure u drive both to tell the difference.Although there are many poor reviews of the Routan out there in cyberspace, most are written by folks who either haven't driven or don't own one. It is a great van, and drives nothing like the Town & Country. This is our first mini-van and have nothing but great things to say about it. It is superbly comfortable, quiet, and for the money (compared to Honda/Toyota) it comes well equipt. On a recent 1000 trip, it averaged 25.2 mpg (running ~70mph), which is impressive for a 4000+lb vehicle. It's future remains uncertain (Chrylser in Chapther 11, talk of not producing more Routans) this is a top notch van and I would highly recommend it. This is a great car. With twins on the way, we knew it was minivan time and dutifully test drove the Sienna and Odyssey. We looked at the Routan initially as an afterthought, but my wife was sold within minutes. The designers really understand how families will use this car, while the options and price VW crushed the competition. And, I have to admit, the car is fun to drive. the 4.0 v6 is powerful, I love the handling, the family is comfortable and, with the entertainment system, occasionally entertained on long drives. The nav system is terrific and the dashboard elegant and useful, particularly at night. I was a lifelong Toyota buyer, but not anymore. I have test-driven and researched different minivans for months before buying one and when I decided to, the Routan came out. At first, I was hesitant for it's a Chrysler-made minivan. I test-drove it and find it to be much better and the best for many reasons: it runs very smoothly, the suspensions absorb rough and uneven surfaces on HWYs very well and road noise isn't noticeable at all compared to the Odyssey. It also looks more sophisticated than other minivans. It definitely feels VW. Maybe, with VW and Chrysler combined, you can't go wrong, especially in this century. People nowadays rarely keep their cars for decades, so if for any reason this vehicle won't last, I won't worry.I researched for months before buying a Minivan and when I decided to, the VW Routan came out. Months prior, I have test-driven other minivans, but most have issues with either road noise/breaks or rattling. Then, I test- drove the Routan; I was impressed for it is very smooth, very quiet and does not produce road noise. The VW suspensions also absorb rough and uneven surfaces very well. I've been advised to go for the Japanese minivans, which are reliable. Well, they are, but I'd rather deal with thinking how long the Routan will last than dealing with road noise and rattling that will surely distract me every time I drive. With VW and Chrysler combined, it must be something?We traded our 06 Honda Odyssey for a 09 Routan (SEL w/ RSE) and I LOVE my Routan. It is so much smoother and quieter than my Odyssey. I love the get-up and go it offers. The seats are extremely comfortable, and I love the extra features we were able to get that aren't offered by the Honda. With all of the incentives VW is offering right now, we were able to get an amazing price for an amazing vehicle. It is truly my favorite vehicle that I've ever owned.It drives like a solid car, more like a luxury car - very well made. And so i often forget it's van. A brand new design and German engineering shows everywhere, leaving odyssey and sienna out in the dust.my van gets only 12 mpg in town and that is driving the speed limit.it has missed a few gears when you down shift.Having 2 small kids, and the endless stuff that goes with them, i knew the days of non-mini van ownership were numbered. I drove the Grand caravan and was very impressed with the engine and transmission performance, Loved the conveniences of all the interior cubbies and storage compartments. I feel that VW addresses the ONLY downfall of chrysler, and thats its interior design. VW nailed the dash setup, the softtouch material looks and feels great. this van is HUGE! with the 3rd row seats folded, i can roll in strollers and bikes and still have room for the weeks groceries. the 3 year maintenance is a great relief. gas Mileage is outstanding!!, im getting 25.1 Highway (62mph)We've had it only for a week but so far it's been great. The interior it's roomy and comfortable the kids love the rear dvd. We compared and test drive every single van in the market before going with VW and you get a lot more for your money compared with the others. This is our 5th VW and we have nothing to say but excellent thing about them Compared to my 2006 Honda Odyssey EX-L, this is a great van! Much quieter on the road, better seats, and we don't see ourselves coming and going everywhere. The Honda doesn't have the toys either. The power passenger seat is especially important to my wife. We just bought a new Routan and couldn't be happier with our purchase. The van drives nice, has great styling and convenient interior features. I test drove the Honda Odyssey, Nissan Quest and Dodge Caravan and thought the Routan was much nice & more fun to drive. We have three kids and they are loving it so far, too. The 2 movie screens are great for watching different movies. The seats are also very comfortable and roomy. I feel like I can move around the cabin much more easily than the other minivans, and I think it drives better and more quietly. I'm one that said we would never have a van. However, we had 3 children and we needed it. I like the styling of the Routan over the other Chrysler products. I also think the interior is much more friendly than the Honda Odyssey. We took delivery on a Tuesday, and Friday we left on vacation...putting 3000 miles on the vehicle. Loved it! I would recommend purchasing the Routan. I have only owned the Routan for 4 days now but so far so good. There is SO much space. The gas mileage isn't bad for a minivan. It is definitely the best looking minivan out right now. I'm a little nervous about the fact that Chrysler has a hand in producing them but time will tell. I kept resisting a mini-van, but with 3 young kids it became a must have. I was hesitant to get the Routan because of the 're-badged' Chrysler persona and just it being the first model year. However, I've been very impressed so far. My wife and I have owned 6 VW's and we can definitely say it has that VW feel and drive to it. It is a dream to drive versus our other car, a Honda Pilot. We also checked out the Odyssey, but it just didn't have a good driving feel to it and suffers the usual interior rattling we've had on all of our Hondas. So I'm glad we went with the Routan. It definitely has more VW to it than I expected.I am qualified to make the above statement as I own a Chrysler Town & Country and have driven the Dodge Grand Caravan several times prior to purchasing my Routan. Anyone who thinks this is the same car as the Dodge or Chrysler is sadly mistaken. The seats in the VW are definitely VW - more firm than the mushy seats of the other two. The engine on the base Routan which I have- the S- is the 3.8L Chrysler engine - not the 3.3L on the base Town & Country or Dodge. The interior design and the driving experience are VW. I have owned more than 6 VWs over the past 20 years and this van feels, looks and acts like a VW. Sharing an engine and body panels w/the other two make it no less a VW.It got to the point where virtually every day of ownership meant something else on this barge didn't fall off, break off, peel off or just plain disappear! Electronics were especially "gremlin filled" nightmares. Door locks would stop working, then start locking or unlocking by themselves. Fuel gauge would sit there and pulsate F to E like it was alive! Dash lighting would fade to nothing at night, then come back on brightly until it repeated the blackout thing. After some negotiations, we took it into the dealer and drove out a new Tourag. Then I found out that this thing was built by Chrysler....now I understand! There was no way I was going to buy a "mini-van" but my wife convinced me so I got her one for Christmas. Needless to say I was very impressed with all the features you get with a SE model. It drives like a dream and my daughter loves watching movies on car rides to the grocery store. Don't buy a mini-van, buy a Routan.... :-)I'm not a mini van guy but we needed something that seats 7. If I was going to consider a mini van it would have to be a VW due to their style and class. I was very impressed with the overall design and style of the Routan. I love the captains chairs. They really give it a roomy but cozy feel. I recently found out that the Routan is pretty much a Chrysler with a few VW touches. I would still recommend a look and a test drive. It's still more hip than a Toyota, Honda, Chrysler ect.There have been many complaints about this being a rebadged Chrysler. For what it is, the Routan is outstanding. There is no way to get a Wolfsburg designed and built minivan to the U.S. in this price range. VW is trying to capture the market for their customers who already have a VW and need a family hauler. We have a Jetta, and needed more room for our growing family. While every aspect of it may not be "German Engineered," it surely is "German Inspired." The ride is great, the layout inside is well though out (we have a bench instead of the captain's chairs for the 2nd row, much more convenient in my opinion). Would definitely recommend. Bought it brand new and love the sporty way it handles - nice acceleration and fun to drive. I used to own a Ford Focus wagon and this car is way more luxurious and comfortable. I was in the market for a station wagon and noticed that there are few offered in the US - mostly from European car makers. Did not think I would be able to afford a German car, but this one is affordable! We had one minor issue (something creaked). The part was replaced under warranty. 15,000 miles @23/32 mpg (city/highway) with no issues but that. This car comes with ESP, plenty airbags and anti-slip-regulation. The panoramic sun roof lets in light, but no heat.Drive 30K miles a year. Cost for diesel will pay for itself in 1 year. Range 500 miles using 12.5 gallons. Came with 6 months free Satellite. Now do not have to listen to the political hate shows. If American companies had this engine they would need to be bailed out and we do not need to rely as much on foreign oil. Traced in 1999 truck(clunker) getting 12 MPG and now getting 40+ MPG Great car so far(6500 miles)I am really happy with the fuel economy and features of this car. It is fun to drive but still gets very respectable mpg. I still have power when I need it. We also have a Honda Civic Hybrid, and the VW is getting better mileage, and is much more fun to drive.I have found that the TDI is great on mileage. Our 1st trip was to Fresno and we got 47 MPG. The turbo lag upsets other drivers. I would like the wagon better.Great car overall. I traded from a loaded 2009 Honda Fit. While the VW's ride is far superior, the Fit's features were quite impressive too. To take the VW from good to great, the VW needs voice navigation and steering wheels mounted controls. It needs front fog lamps and the homelink. the $500 for the blue tooth seems pricey too. Otherwise, the TDI is quite amazing.This Jetta Sportwagen is my first (and likely last VW). The engineering is wonderful with so many well thought out features. However, the build quality is just not acceptable. Thus far I've experienced a couple of horribly annoying rattles, a bolt that holds the door on fell out, the driver's seat became wobbly, and the $60 cargo net accessory is now useless as the clips that hold it to the anchor points popped off. The dealer fixed one rattle (which has now returned) but clearly didn't wish to investigate the other. I actually dread calling to make a service appointment because it's always a frustrating experience. It's a pity because aside from the harsh ride the car is great fun to drive.One year ago I purchased this car, and had it towed to the dealership for a Fuel Pump Relay issue 2 days later. 32K miles later and the car has been flawless, with excellent MPG at highway speeds. This car isn't the fastest/ most powerful, but it has an excellent balance of power/performance. In North Dakota at speeds of 75 - 80 we got about 41 - 42 MPG. Steering is responsive and the ride is quite smooth. First 3 services are free, and free inspections for the life of the car isn't bad either. The longer you drive the car the better it runs. Looking forward to the second year!This car is best on the highway, where it gets great mileage and the firm seats remain comfortable for the whole trip. But as a city car I'm not so sure. DSG transmission can be annoying. At 30MPH it wants to be in 5th with engine @ 1100 RPMs. You can shift it yourself though. Mileage drops from 45 on the highway to 25 in the city. Nav /radio system has glitches and sound quality is mediocre. Cargo space is really impressive for a car this size.This is an update on a previous post. I have put 11,000 miles so far since March and have averaged 39 MPG overall 60/40 hwy/cty. I routinely get 45-50 MPG on my 70 mile commute. The engine with the manual trans. is fun to wind up and it is easy to merge in traffic with all the torque. Taking it in for the first maintenance was easy and painless. So far so good!!The most bang for your buck of any car on the market. I have the 2008 Wolfsburg, 2.0T and I'm getting an AVERAGE of 29.5 MPG over the least 10 - 15 tanks. I've never had one under 27 and my last tank was 31. I also think it has a perfectly tuned transmission - I never feel like I need to be in manual mode. Bottom line: great car.I'm glad I ended up with the VW TDI after comparing several other cars. The TDI performs better than expected. Plenty of power and handles great for a small car. MPG is great, if you compare the TDI to the Hybrids currently on the market you will buy a TDI. I believe 5- 7 years down the road the TDI will still be running strong the Hybrids will be costing you a fortune. Not to mention all the hazardous waste from the batteries used.Almost 4000 miles, and absolutely nothing to complain about. Only compliments for this comfortable, well- built and equipped car. My city/hwy mileage averages 29 mpg. The five cylinder power plant provides me with great pickup and passing ability. The Jetta exceeds my expectations and I recommend it without reservation. Been driving a Sportwagen TDI (DSG)for 3 months now, and absolutely love the car. A very practical wagon with loads of cargo room, interior design that's far more like an Audi than Honda or Subaru, and the gas mileage of a Civic! The car feels wonderful on the road - solid and much more powerful than 140hp would lead you to believe. Yes you pay more for diesel fuel, but with a 40-cent spread between unleaded and diesel in NY, you still come out ahead, and put less CO2 in the air to boot. Gas mileage is very temperature dependent - was getting 34 mpg in winter, but already the commute is up to 38 mpg with spring temps (it's hilly here). Totally love the car!I've only put 1K on the car so it's way too early to judge the reliability therefore the lower score. My wife wanted me to buy a Civic but relented to my choice of car. Unfortunately, she drove it to work last week and now she wants it for her own. The car is very comfortable to drive. I can tell it was designed to drive the freeways for long trips. You don't hear the engine at all at cruising speeds and you are at the peak torque @ 60mph. At first start up, and at a stop sign, the signature diesel sound is there but very muted compared to a bigger oil-burner. Finally, we are very pleased with the mileage. At 1K odometer, we are getting low 40's highway, around 35 mixed driving.Our Family has Corolla and Civic. This time we choose Jetta. After seeing Jetta we are so pleased. We just realized how much of a car we missed in the last years. Carefree Maintenance is something really amazing. This clearly show the reliability of a car. Cargo space is well designed. I guess its bigger than Camry. It was an amazing experience when we took it on a high way. Over all it was fun. When dealer explained the safety and the construction I don't think no compact car come close to it. German engineering is amazing. I guess we will replace Corolla and Civic at the earliest. I would say from now on we are Volkswagen family.This replaced my 2006 TDI in August. Think I was the third one sold by the dealer. Seat is the same as 2006, and I found out that new TDI(s) have electric passenger seat (I should have waited for it). Best mileage running Minnespolis to Louisville was 41 mpg (WINTER DRIVING). New EPA ratings are realistic for a change. Around Town gets around 33 mpg (WINTER DRIVING). I expect a minor improvement with straight #2 fuel. I love the mileage and feel of the car.3 months old now with 4400 miles. Very good mileage--34/35 city and 40+ on highway. TDI engine has great torque and good acceleration. Automatic is superb--shifts great and extremely smooth. Use the huge sunroof all the time. Tight handling and attractive interior. Sound system is very good. Lots of room--cargo space almost as big many SUVs and wagons. Solid build and tight tolerances on body work. Styling is pretty good too. Very impressed as cars for last 12 years have been Audi A6s, A8, S8. This wagon is a great car and very good value.The car is great! It handles like a sportscar with good acceleration. It is smooth a high speeds. Lots of cargo space with the rear seats that fold down flat. Decent fuel economy averaging 35-39 mpg depending on speeds.Moved up from a 2000 Golf GLS. The build quality is excellent, very good road feel and on the road track. Low-end torque from the 2.5 is a little disappointing (compared to the Golf), it can be stalled quite easily. That said, the car is great, wagon very roomy (almost as roomy as my 2004 Passat Wagon). I recommend this car to anyone.I am so Impressed with my Jetta. I am so happy that I did not go for a Honda or a Toyota this time. I had a CR-V and Civic before but after owning Jetta I just realized my mistake of choosing Honda 2 times. Jetta is very comfortable, Safe and amazing performance. It has everything that I was looking in a car. Volkswagen Customer service is the best. My last statement - Ladies and gentlemen, Boys and Girl before you buy car (new) you must look at Jetta. You get more than what you pay for. Great car, very reliable. Great on gas, and affordable. I only wish it drove better in the snow. Definitely need to upgrade to snow tires on this one.This car is terrific. The range is525 miles per tank, and I'm getting over 40 miles per gallon highway and 34 city. Comfortable seating, plenty of cargo space, and I couldn't be happierMy first real car was '77 Rabbit. Drove Japanese and American afterwards. Realized I missed my VW. I absolutely love this new Jetta! Great torque through entire power band. Love the tight German suspension engineering. Manual transmission shifts like 'buttah'. It's so much fun to throw the car into any curve, have it stay planted on the asphalt like it's on rails, give it some throttle and come rocketing out the other side. WOW!! And this is the base S model. Interior fit and finish is xlnt. I'm 6'4'' and have plenty of leg/head room, compared to most Japanese cars. There's enough bolster in the cloth seats for those curves, but still very comfortable for my daily commute to the city.I just purchased a 2009 Jetta Sportwagen TDI. I have been looking at the Jetta for a long time and was able to finally able to locate a TDI wagon and my local dealership (someone ordered it and financing fell through!!). I love the TDI. It is quiet, powerful and smooth. It feels more solid and refined than the SE model. The seats are very comfortable. The sound system quality is very good. The fit and finish is excellent. The wagon model is very attractive. I was really wanting something affordable, but the Rabbit's were too small and the Jetta's were a bit boring. The SportWagon was perfect because it was affordable ($20 k)and very cool and different looking. It's one of the few cars you can drive that is truly unique. The quality of the materials is amazing for such an affordable car. It's definitely not as boss as my wife's Passat (4 cylinder turbo), but for the price is fantastic. I recommend the manual transmission to avoid the slight delay on take off found in other V-dubs. This should be anyone's list who wants a beautiful, roomy, fuel efficient, fun to drive car. Nothing compares to it for the price.Below are the ACTUAL mpg and average speed figures as reported by the onboard VW computer: MPG = 34.7 at an average speed of 32 mph 34.3mpg @ 30mph 34.3mpg @ 31mph 33.7mpg @ 30mph 33.8mpg @ 30mph 33.9mpg @ 33mph Each set of the figures above were from full tanks of gas (about 400 miles per tank). As you can see, most of the driving was city driving and the TDI is pretty consistent at around 34 MPG. I have yet to use a full tank on the highway but I typically see MPG figures in the mid 40's when charging around the flatlands of the Sacramento area doing 65-75 MPH. Love this car!!This car replaces a Honda Civic DX. When my wife said she wanted a new car, and it "had to get better mileage than her Honda", the search was on. We spend a couple of weeks a year in Europe, and know how developed the Turbo Diesel is in Europe. While Hybrid's are interesting, its repair costs are questionable - most likely one won't be repairing, they will be replacing components. I had heard from friends who have TDi's how much they liked them. The TDi is positioned as the top of the line model - with all of the bells and whistles. This car impresses me more every time I drive it. It accelerates at every speed with gusto, and averages about 44+ mpg on a 25 mile one way trip.2009 Jetta TDI I currently have less than 1400 miles. I took a short trip of 250 miles and received 47 mpg. This was great. The Sport Wagon would be my preference. Since my walker doesn't fit in the trunk with the back seat up. It appears to be a large trunk but not the depth I would like.I have had my Jetta for 2 days now and I just love it. It is super sleek and fun to drive! It has nice pick up to it and I can't wait to try out the manual option. Supposed to be my car but hubby hasn't let me drive it ever since I brought it home! I am hoping to not have any issues with the Leatherette but read only good reviews from others who have experience with it. As a past owner of a VW dealership, I am confident when I say the car is terrific. This car is fun, fun, fun. I wanted something to enjoy and it seems the Jetta 5spd has provided that something. A tight fitting vehicle with nothing negative to report except the gas consumption could use some improvement.We traded in two gas hogs for this Jetta TDI, and are extremely happy with this car. It is smooth and quiet, has great pick-up and excellent gas mileage. We are headed to Germany and wanted something to zip around Europe in efficiently, have two kids, with ample space for them and their supplies. Previously drove Honda Odyssey and Nissan Frontier, approx 20mpg, so very happy with the diesel mileage. Runs surprisingly quiet and smooth.Love this car. Much more fun to drive than the LR3, plus I prefer the look. My last several trips to Europe my rental cars were VWs and I always enjoyed the driving experience thru Austria and Germany. Back in the 70's I had a 59 magic bus complete with shag carpet, wood panneling, curtains and the 8 track tape player.. Also owned a 62 bug in Hawaii. Those VWs were cool! I purchased a new Jetta TDI 6 speed manual car a few weeks ago. First tank of diesel averaged a little over 45 mpg. This car looks, drives and rides like a car costing a great deal more. Standard equipment on this car would be options on others. I can only say this is a great well priced 4 door car.Pondered over buying this car for months. I am glad I pulled the trigger. Lots of power, sweet 6 speed. Build quality is great, better than the BMW, Audi,or Infiniti I have had in the past. Good sound system (not great). I think this is the best 21K car sold in the past 10 years. Test drove the DSG and that was pretty awesome but I had to go manual. I just purchased a 2009 SEL and couldn't be happier. The handling and performance of the Jetta blew away the Acura TSX and TL, Accord EX-L, and the Volvo S40. The 5cyl engine provides enough power and the ride is snug without being hard. Get the SEL, though. The fancy electronics aside, the 17 inch wheels do make a difference. It was also a good deal. VW covers most service and maintenance for three years and I got mine for 20k. All in all a fun car to drive. I also have a Honda Civic Hybrid but the Jetta TDI for the same money is much more fun and better quality. The diesel engine has tremendous low end torque and the turbo is rocket fast in sport mode. Just did a round trip from San Diego to LA and back and averaged 46 mpg. Been getting in the mid 30 mpg around town. The three mode transmission is fun for whatever mood. Leave it in D for economical commuting, drop it into sport to zip through traffic and manually shift when in the mountain twisties. Good seats with nice bun warmers and plenty of room for my 6 foot frame. Feels like a BMW or Audi for many thousands less. With free service and tax rebates how can I go wrong?5000 miles and this is the best car I have ever owned. I drive 100 miles round trip everyday. 41-43 mpg. Average speed 75mph. I cannot figure out why anyone would buy a hybrid. Clean diesel tech. is the way to go. GM, Ford, Dodge/Chrysler need to catch up. I would have bought American if they could match the quality and performance, but they cannot.This is my first new car in a long time after driving vans/mini-vans for the past 15 years. Handles great and very good acceleration when you want it. Feels real solid and sporty. I have 3900 miles on it and have been averaging 36 mpg. I am hoping that will improve in the summer to make up for the .80-1.00 more per gallon over gas. Being single and sixty the last thing I wanted was one of the classic "family" cars even though I like the reliability of Hondas and Toyotas. Nor did I want a classic "geezer pleaser" (Avalon/Lexus). Not wanting to pay the price for a BMW I find this Wolfsburg Jetta to be an excellent compromise. The 2L turbo engine is sweet with strong response and quite decent mileage even if it does require premium. I try not to look to closely at the Consumer Reports reliability charts as all German cars appear to be lacking but I previously had an '04 Jetta GLS that never skipped a beat in 50K miles! I have no reason to think this Jetta won't be just as reliable but time will tell.I traded my 9yr old Civic for a new jetta SE automatic. Really enjoy the horsepower I got and all the conveniences came with the car. Love the sunroof and heated seat especially in cold So Cal winter. I've driven the car for 2,500 miles now and am very happy with it. 85% of the miles are short in town trips ath are 5 miles or less (hardly enough to get let the engine warm up) and I am averaging 35.2 MPG. I am sure if we drove slower and took longer trips the mileage would be substantially higher. We purchased this because we wanted an efficient car and could not stand the tiny box feel of all the other high mileage cars on the market (IE civic, fit, carolla, yari, etc).I have been driving GM products for the past 15 years and I was dragging my feet when my wife took me to Betten Imports! My lease was up on my GM car and guess what? GM is out of that business. We drove the Jetta SE, and were delighted by all the standard features. We were especially delighted with the ESP and the way it handled in snow. Very important in Michigan. When we got to the lease payment, I quickly realized that for $50 more per month than I was paying for my GM car we could lease 2 Jettas. So we did! My wife's is a Salsa Red and mine is a Reflective Silver. We love the wonders of German engineering. The sound system is awesome! We love the mp3 connectivity. The heated seats rock!This has to be the greatest purchase I've ever made with an auto.This is an excellent car for the money. The standard features include 10 speaker stereo, heated seats. The fit and finish is superb for a $21990 car. The EPA mileage ratings are totally incorrect. This car easily gets over 40 mpg in mixed driving. You will easily get in the high 40's or even 50 mpg on the highway if you drive carefully. The car handles well, is stable and feels very secure.With gas close to $4 a gallon, I decided it was time to part company with my SUV, so while at a local area VW Dealer picking up my son?s Rabbit, I took a look at the ?09 TDI sedan. Shopped around for about a month and then went back and purchased one. I have one of the original ones sent out to the dealers as a preview, white minus the green leaf decals, with their new outstanding automatic transmission. I couldn?t be happier with this car, great mileage, 36 mpg city, and it handle like a true euro built driving machine. By the way, after only 2,500 miles the fuel mileage should improve once the engine is broke in.We were looking for a replacement for our Volvo XC70. Wanted something not quite as large, but with lots of utility and better fuel economy. The Jetta TDI Sportwagon is the ideal size vehicle for us...room for our dog with the rear seats up and some hauling from time to time. Many crossovers don't have the room this VW Sportwagen does. But the real deal is the TDI engine. Our first trip was across Washington state and back when the car was new. Got 43 MPG overall and its getting better. The new automatic is so smooth you can only tell the shift points by looking at the tach. The seating positions are very comfortable for a long trip and the car is quiet with little road noise.This is our third TDI and first sedan. We still have an 05 wagon but will be trading for a new sport wagon in late spring of 09. Our 03 wagon saved my wife's life when she was T-boned and ended up upside down 100 yards down the road. Not a scratch, a very safe car.I have owned 15 cars over the past 30 years ranging from a Subaru to a Porsche. The Jetta TDI is the best overall so far. Low price, great gas mileage, fun to drive, roomy, great build quality and love the huge sun roof.This is the first car I have owned that isn't American. I struggled to find a happy medium with price, high fuel mileage & satisfaction with the size/interior of a new car. My Ford was 10 years old & I wanted the next car to last that long. After lots of online research & many test drives, I wanted a '09 Jetta TDI in theory, but needed to drive one once they hit the street. It was love at first drive. The car is substantial, feels solid, not much noise & I don't feel like I'm driving a tin-can. Other cars get similar mileage, but don't have the "pep," feel as safe or have the quality. The standard equipment is great. I love my Jetta TDI & I'm working on my guilt for not buying American.I've just passed 6000 miles and I really enjoy this vehicle. I see no drawbacks from the diesel -- except that diesel is a about a dollar more a gallon than gas these days. I spend a lot less time at the gas pump -- I get over 500 miles on a tank and I put in less than 13 gallons a fill-up. The DSG transmission is well matched to the engine and the throttle response is smooth and powerful enough to inspire confidence for all merging and passing situations. The steering and road feel is good, and it takes the road bumps well. All in all I'm very happy with this car to date. Fun to drive! The fuel economy is much better than the EPA estimates. So far I am averaging 37+mpg in my daily commute (70%city, 30%highway) and when I go strictly highway I'm averaging 46mpg. And the amazing thing is that it should improve as the engine breaks continues to break in (have 4500 miles so far). Glad I picked this over a hybrid -- much more power and the trunk size is unbelievable! The Jetta is comfortable during my day-to-day commute and also during road trips. It easily fits four 6-footers with no performance lag. The engine noise is even less than my friend's '08 Passat 2.0T and no one can believe that it's a diesel until they look at the badging. I have now had my TDI Sportwagen for one and half months. I have 6500 miles and average about 38 mpgs overall. I keep a fully loaded car for sales promotion items from the back of the front seats to the back door and getting an average of 38mpgs. I can't imagine what I would get with a car that did not have a heavy load daily. It is very sporty, handles well and I am very pleased. I would recommend that you give this car a drive if looking for an economical option to the SUV. I am still saving about 30-40 dollars a month on gas even though there is a 80 cent spread between unleaded regular and diesel.With all the attention on the TDI, the SEL is perhaps the most unsung bargain in the Sportwagen lineup. With the same 2.0T engine (and sporty-sounding noise pipe) as the GTI and GLI, the SEL is a blast to drive. It's loaded with leather/memory seats, dual climate control, Premium sound, Sirius radio, sporty 17-inch wheels, Highline instrument cluster, and a myriad other options not found on any other Jetta. Mine has the enormous moonroof that is actually best appreciated in the backseat due to its size. The cargo space is amazing--more room behind the rear seat than a Passat wagon. Rowing through the six-speed manual transmission and feeling the rush of acceleration is great. What a car!My wife and I enjoy driving our new Jetta TDI. We have been achieving 33 mpg in city driving and 43 mpg on the highway as long as the auto is driven sensibly. The new diesel is much quieter than we expected, and there is almost no odor on start-up, even on 20 degree mornings! The seats are a bit larger than the older style Jetta, but are still firm and comfortable. Rear legroom has also improved. While I would not classify this auto as a true sports car, it does handle well. The fit and finish of the interior is excellent, and all controls are well placed. Overall, we are happy with our purchase. It's a lot of car for $23,000.I was really impressed with the Diesel as an alternative to a hybrid. I had a Civic Hybrid that was a great car, but had no guts when you needed it. This car has it in spades. The diesel's torque makes for a much more pleasant driving experience while returning similar fuel economy. The only thing I can't figure out is a high pitched noise that is constantly going. It's not the turbo. This noise is coming from the rear passenger quarter of the car and is especially noticeable after shutting off the engine. No one else seems to hear it, but it makes my ears feel like they've been screamed in after I drive it. Hopefully, it's a break-in issue that will go away.This is a unique blend of qualities. Nice design and build. Nice interior. Great fuel economy (30 to 40)and nice performance from this drive train. Fun transmission that can drive like a manual in sport mode. Good handling from this zippy car. From 0 to 50 mph this car is quick which is not expected with this kind of economy. It also has Audi interior cues such as info center on dash. It is the same as my A6. No diesel smell or noise. Pleasantly surprised from a former BMW 328 owner.Bought this car in PA and drove it home to SC. I took secondary roads all the way home to make sure it got broken in properly and I still got 43 MPG. I am very happy with the comfort, fit and finish, and fuel economy and I love the DSG. I can barely feel it shift. The car drives firmer than my old Caddy but in a good way. It just feels more solid and it's certainly as comfortable. My only concern is long term reliability since I've read about earlier generation Jettas having some significant quality issues. Only time will tell if VW has improved on the quality.1 week into owning this car and I couldn't be happier. I'm shocked at the power this car has. My last car was a GTI VR6, granted it had over 120k but this TDI has just as much pick up. I have full confidence powering into traffic from a stop. This is a simple, elegant and very well designed car that inherits many technical, structural and visual cues from Audi.I traded a 2003 Jetta TDI for this and it is everything the 2003--that I liked--was times 4. Mine has only the gorilla mats option and I can't think of anything else I would have wanted. The quality is much better than the 2003 (fit, finish, etc). The electronics are superb. Road sound is almost non-existent. The engine is just fantastic. Great power and quiet. I get 36 MPG on the low side and 46+ on the highway. I average around 39-40 and NOTHING is flat where I live, all up and down hills. In a flat region of the country, I have no doubt 50+ MPG would be easy.I traded a 2003 Jetta TDI for this and it is everything the 2003--that I liked--was times 4. Mine has only the gorilla mats option and I can't think of anything else I would have wanted. The quality is much better than the 2003 (fit, finish, etc). The electronics are superb. Road sound is almost non-existent. The engine is just fantastic. Great power and quiet. I get 36 MPG on the low side and 46+ on the highway. I average around 39-40 and NOTHING is flat where I live, all up and down hills. In a flat region of the country, I have no doubt 50+ MPG would be easy.My wife and I went on a vacation where we drove across France. We were given an '09 Jetta TDI. We averaged 48 MPG, 2 suitcases and various bags and was mostly comfortable w/ the sport seats. Fun to drive with the manual up the small winding roads in mountains. Was skeptical of the diesel engine, but after going 1500 miles @ 48-50 MPG, hitting 110 MPH with no shake, I am sold...This is my second VW, I had a Passat in 95. So far I am loving it really for the money it is a steal, when you look at the interior fit and finish, engine performance! And the driving experience? NICE, I love the euro feel handling and electric assist steering is great feel. It also has a very tight turning circle which no one has mentioned. I have yet to hit 1K miles but am averaging 24 MPG combined...I would think that will get a bit better when the motor breaks in.Watch out, all you denizens in your hybrid econo boxes with 500 pound batteries under the backseat and your smug looks at the stoplight. I've seen the future, and am driving it now. That future is the 2009 Jetta TDI, especially the Sportwagen model. Imagine averaging, in a new, tight, not broken-in engine, 50+ MPG on the highway on cruise control, and in the high 30s in town, with lots of torque, comfortable interior, German engineering, and handling which, while not as good as my Lotus Europa, is a LOT more responsive and tight than a lot of more pedestrian cars. Do yourself a favor, hie yourself down to your VW dealer and drive one for yourself. You will NOT be disappointed.Watch out, all you denizens in your hybrid econo boxes with 500 pound batteries under the backseat and your smug looks at the stoplight. I've seen the future, and am driving it now. That future is the 2009 Jetta TDI, especially the Sportwagen model. Imagine averaging, in a new, tight, not broken-in engine, 50+ MPG on the highway on cruise control, and in the high 30s in town, with lots of torque, comfortable interior, German engineering, and handling which, while not as good as my Lotus Europa, is a LOT more responsive and tight than a lot of more pedestrian cars. Do yourself a favor, hie yourself down to your VW dealer and drive one for yourself. You will NOT be disappointed.Convenience features leave me a bit unimpressed, considering the high cost. Mostly manual seat adjustments, no steering wheel audio controls, and a really annoying radio electronic lockout feature. With diesel fuel now up to 30% higher than normal gas, the fuel economy advantage is questionable. Given a 30% price diff, if you get 45 mpg, a 35 mpg gas burner costs you pretty close the same. You need to use an expensive specialty motor oil. Clean diesel? I can sniff a tiny whiff of diesel exhaust as I am driving, so folks with respiratory issues may want to pay very careful attention to this during a test-drive. (Maybe some residue on the engine that will burn off eventually.)I have never owned a VW before, but wanted better gas mileage. Upon a lot of research, I purchased the TDI. I drive 11 miles to work and mileage keeps increasing. I have 1100 miles on car now and it gets an average of 40 mpg. I haven't been on any long trips yet, but look forward to increasing mileage. It states 600 miles per tank. My previous car got 22 mpg and 240 a tank for the same trip! It has a lot of pep, room and lots of extras. I look forward to having it for a long time and driving it on long trips.Teutonic styling, handling and quality. Stiff suspension and taut handling takes some getting used to but lots of smiles per km. Fuel economy averages 6 L/100 km out of the box in a mixture of highway driving and city. Doors close with a reassuring thud. Interior controls and finish are all of the highest quality. Everything works as it's supposed to. Expensive trim level (Highline) and options (Sirius radio etc.) worth the upgrade. TDI is luxury car quiet and smooth. 6 speed manual takes some getting used to with closely matched ratios. Best to find a high range and leave it there, letting the 235 ft lb torque do the rest. Only missed feature is HID headlights, standard H4 are very good.I picked it up in Tampa and drove 800 miles home. I got 42 mpg on average and the engine is not even broken in yet. The storage is great and will be perfect for my sales job. The savings on gas even with Diesel being higher is really great. Fun to drive, just as peppy and fun as the BMW X3 I drove. I would recommend to the person who wants to be environmental but needs a functional engine. I was able to pass trucks and get out of the way when needed which was my only concern initially. Did get the extended warranty being a new engine and style.Ours. Well, wife's but what the heck I get to drive it too when we ride together. we got the 6 speed manual, what a blast to drive. by the way we went in to buy a Tiguan but ended up buying the TDI we think it's a better value. Got the multiple on dash cd changer but don't need it cause it's got an ipod hook up and the rest is history. this car is well worth it, an excellent car without comparison, buy one we need to support the Diesel technology so they bring more choices for us to love.First time owning a VW and I have to say I'm very impressed with the quality of materials used in production. Seats are comfortable and supportive. The VW TDI diesel is much quieter than I was expecting after previously driving a Mercedes diesel years ago. Great Car all around so far. I recently purchased a TDI Sportwagen with the panorama sunroof and 6-speed manual. I have driven the car about 500 miles. I have averaged 39 MPG and have gotten up to 46 on longer highway trips. The size is perfect, roomy back seat and plenty of cargo space. The huge sunroof really brightens up the black interior. The car is plenty peppy and a lot of fun to drive. Overall I am very satisfied so far.This is a great car for 25k. Getting 40+ MPG out of the gate in mixed driving. Very quick off the line. You cannot find this mix of performance, build quality, MPG and price anywhere else. This is a great car for the money. It is very fuel efficient, for those who have only managed to get in 350 or so miles, the mileage does improve drastically over time. I average mid 40's for primarily 50 mph driving on country backroads, and high 30s in city driving. I decreased my weekly gas bill for my Subaru from 180 dollars to my current 52.00 per week! That cannot be beat, and it only requires one fill per week, with me driving 600 miles per week on average. My only complaint is that I have 3500 miles so far, and the check engine light just came on. The dealer has been very helpful, but I am a bit concerned that maybe they have not yet worked out the kinks in the new engine.I drove pretty much every small to midsized Japanese sedan before buying the Jetta. The only cars that came close in their standard configurations were the Nissan Sentra-S and Altima. The VW's features, handling, and interior quality were well above anything else I tested. Plenty adequate acceleration, torque-y little engine, great handling, and a well-crafted overall package. It feels faster than it is, but that's good because it's really easy to misbehave in this car. A nice entry point into German-designed cars - sporty, solid, and wonderfully engineered. A classy commuter that's also fun to buzz the backroads with on the weekend.Been driving my Jetta since the last 10 days. What a car! Extremely powerful, yet economical engine. You won't hear the road noise, which is a big deal. Very logical controls and comfortable sitting position. Looks solidly built. Hugs the road like a train on rails.Traded in my '04 Jetta TDI for the '09 model. Had put 103K miles on my previous car. This one seems to be more refined, I had door rattles in my '04 model that couldn't be found by dealer. Torque on the '09 is crazy! Very fun to drive. At hwy speeds, expect ~40 Mpg. If you slow down to 55 ;), you can get 50 Mpg. The MFD display is neat, as it tells you instant and average economy. Love my TDI - and get better mileage when I use B15 BioDiesel! (Ethanol users, eat your hearts out!) -MikeCall me a convert! I ditched my 07 Chevy Tahoe for some TDI fun. I waited several months for a TDI sport wagon and it was worth the wait. This car is a joy to drive and the mileage is fantastic. I drove a friend's hybrid Camry, and a Prius, before testing the TDI. There is simply no comparison. Toyota's hybrids are great at what they do, but I couldn't imagine driving one on a daily basis. This is my first VW, and I am eagerly awaiting the arrival of the diesel option in the new Tiguan so my wife can have a little fun. Zipping around town in the Jetta is loads of fun, and I am looking forward to my first road trip.Just got mine yesterday after 4 months of research and test driving Benz, Toyota, and Honda. Best value for this price range; not to mention the loads of fun just driving such powerful car (in this class)This is my third Jetta. The first one was a 2003 1.8T w/ 180 HP which then traded for 2005.5 150 HP 2.5 L in which i drove 54,000+miles, a perfectly reliable car with the exception of burned out brake light when it was about 1 year old and a recent burned headlight. So overall, i'd say that this new Wolfsburg is the best overall. It has huge amount of power. I love the way the engine sounds in the freeway when I'm speeding up a bit. I got the red Salsa and it's great. Although i do miss a few features that the previous model but it's okay. As far as fuel efficiency, it's not that great especially during aggressive driving and driving up the hill. But it's better than driving an SUV. I just got my 2009 Jetta TDI [DSG] and I love it! It's a great little car. Even brand new I've been averaging over 50 mpg on the highway during my commute. The styling is nice, not great, but nice. The interior is very well laid out, with controls in easy to access, but not necessarily see, locations. The DSG, although an "automatic" transmission, shifts like a manual and it takes some getting used to if you have never driven before. The degree of engine braking as the car downshifts back into first was startling the first few times. I'm looking forward to getting even better mileage after the engine is fully broken-in.Very solid build. The 6 speed manual is very smooth and really lets you enjoy the torque of the diesel. I live in south Florida and the sunscreen over the panoramic sunroof actually does keep it cool inside. I am 6'6" and have plenty of headroom and my kids can still sit behind me. First tank was 39.5 mpg with 60% highway. I have seen over 50 mpg over long stretches at 72-75 mph. As an owner of an ?84 300D Turbo Diesel Benz for over 10 years, I knew it would be worth waiting for the ?09 Jetta TDI. Two weeks after purchasing my Loyal Edition, I remain extremely satisfied. This car has amazing torque output! I can feel the quiet diesel engine purring under the hood as it speeds effortlessly down the road. The firm ride adds to the feel that I'm driving a tamed beast! Months of research convinced me that no other car gives you the value the TDI offers. At an average of 44.7 mpg on the highway this past weekend, I am convinced this is an unbeatable deal that will last for years to come.I picked up a new 2009 Wolfsburg 2.0T with the 6sp automatic a about 5 days ago and still have nothing to say about the car other than it's great. The interior design is well laidd out and comfortable. The red led lighting from the overhead console is a nice touch for driving at night. Outside the car design just looks sharp, love the unique wheels. Performance is great, trading in a 2006 GTI 1.8T 5 sp manual, I was not expecting the power this car has, but it does put a smile on your face. So far the first couple tanks of gas has given me an average of 30.1 mpg that too was a great surprise as well. The mpg should get a little better when things break in a little more. I just went from a 2005.5 Jetta Package 1 to a 09 Jetta SE. The engine is so much quieter and the 20 extra HP is noticeable. The fit and finish are even better which is amazing!I picked up my new TDI Loyalty Edition last week after waiting about 2 months for it and have driven it about 350 miles so far and I absolutely love the handling and torque. So far I am doubtful that I will see the 45+ mpg I was hoping for, unless it improves after it is broken in. I have been avg about 35 mpg combo city/hwy. I have been driving a little aggressively, so maybe there is some upside. I do like the car and it handle very well for a sedan. Great value and economy. Here's hoping for better mileage! I have owned my 2009 for a week and put on about 500 miles and love it. I owned a tdi before and love it too. I bought that car in 2004. The 2009 is better car in ever way, power, more room for passenger, driver, and the trunk is just huge. The road and motor noise and so low it is just unbelievable. The sound system is the best. This year Volkswagen added a power seat for the driver along with the heated seats for both passenger and drive. If you can buy this car, buy it. I paid $27,300 as this car has dealer mark ups. I am not complaining because it is worth it.I got a smokin deal on my Wolfsburg. It is the only normal jetta (not GLI) that comes this model year 2009 with the 2.0T. What a fun engine. Not opened it up yet but wow half throttle and it really goes. Seats are mostly comfortable, I haven't been able to get mine exactly where I want it. The only things I would change would be fuel economy readout in dash and steering wheel controls for the radio. I love it and look forward to driving it every morning. PS Don't get the Wolfsburg Jetta if you don't like to clean wheels (Look great but dirty quickly). Overall great car for the money.This is a true driving machine. The diesel engine is smooth, clean, quiet, and fast. The turbo kicks in and you take off. Fit and finish is wonderful. The panoramic roof is worth every dime. Makes the interior feel so roomy, and even living in nc I do not feel any effect from solar heat. Suspension is right on. I have seen mpg of 52 for my round trip to work and back (45 miles rt). I can't wait to drive it tomorrow.I drove about 350 mi with my new car and I still have 1/2 of the tank full. Drives like a rocket, very solid feel. Did I mentioned that it is quiet and acceleration it so powerful especially up hill. I love this car the ride is comfortable. This is our main car from now on. I was diving the other day up hill and a Toyota Prius did have very hard time keeping up with the traffic. Bottom line go get one.I was considering hybrids, but heard about this one coming out. I'm glad I waited. It has tremendous acceleration and great handling. The computer showed that I got 44.3 mpg on a 300 mile trip. I'm still over half a tank plus I drove around all day today. The engine is quiet and clean. I've seen older tdis spouting dirty smoke, but this one does not. There is also a minimal amount of noise. If you are inside, you can't hear it at all at idle. When you punch the throttle, this thing takes off. A lot of push. I notice it especially around 20-30 mpg like trying to get on freeway. It is peppy! The materials are as good as the bmw 650i we own. Just don't confuse the fuel!I have only driven 200 miles in the new TDI clean, but I already know I would rather have the leather seat package I had on the '05. The car is my office, and this one is not as comfortable as the '05. I am an outside sales rep, and I drive A LOT. The "clean" is fun to drive, the sound system is better, it has more features in the dash, which I like. So far I have used 1/4 tank of fuel according to the gage, we shall see how that continues to play out. Overall, I really like the "clean". I do have more space to carry my sales bags and samples, and there is more power to carry it all.Talk about a good car, hits all 3 strong points comfort, fuel economy, and reliability. I'm a big guy, and i fit just right in this wonderful car, also it's got that big trunk we all been looking for. Its fun to drive to, that engine torque is all what matters these days. To anyone who is skeptical about diesel cars, take it for a test drive, you will fall in love with it.nice handling, more than enough power, sporty feeling, gorgeous interior design, well equipped standard options that can't be found in other cars in the same price range, nice panoramic sunroof that covers almost entire roof - I feel like I am driving a convertible car. My two year old son loves this. Aside from the things above, I was a huge fan of Japanese cars. I have owned Corolla, Accord, Camry, and Sienna so far. But, I don't know if I like Japanese cars any more. Now, I like VW Jetta 100x better than any of my previous cars. This car is such a great value from the finely tuned engine to the feature filled interior. The Sports Edition (SE) includes amazing leather interior, ipod adapter, six Cd changer, heated seats,power windows and locks, sunroof, and a/c. The engine is a 2.5 liter 170 hp 177 pound feet of torque german engineered work of art. The vehicle still gets around 30 mpg and delivers a punch of power for a 4 cylinder. The exterior styling is very appealing and is designed in a very aerodynamic way. This car blows away others in its class like the camry, accord, and altima and still remains cheaper than all of them.Traded in 2001 BMW M3 for TDI Sportwagen. So far with 4,900km (3,050 miles), most put on in one 3,400km road trip, I am very happy with both power and mileage. Climbing a mountain pass doing 75mph with cruise control on, the transmission never shifted out of 6th gear. This is with the car totally loaded down with luggage and 4 passengers. Only minor complaints with "buzzing" in drivers door on certain road surfaces and a creaking on the passenger side of the sunroof. I will take these to be fixed when I take the car in for it's 1st service. We have exceeded 16K Miles in less than a year so the engine is till in break in mode, as you may know diesel engines are made of much harder metal in relation to a gasoline engines. Returned from a trip to the Bay Area over the weekend. By the way this is the wife's car i only get to enjoy it on weekends or long trips as i get the behind the wheel assignment. The car feels strong and solid as the day we brought it home, driving a manual on hilly San Francisco can be a bit intimidating but not in this car as engine and tranny are well calibrated, in fact our kid did comment that it was better than the amusement park rides.Coming from a Legacy GT I was worried that the power wouldn't be there. However mated with the 6 speed manual it is plenty of zip and performs just fine in the mountains near Denver. The 1 regret is the gearing on the vehicle for higher speed driving. For customers that need to avg. 80 mph you won't get the typical 42 mpg I have been calculating. The best mpg - avg speed hovers around 60 - 63 mph which correlates to 50 mpg. Overall I am happy so far, 6,600 miles in the fuel costs are excellent and always try to get 600 miles to the tank. Pricing makes it hard to say no and the gov. incentives are nice. The only problem I foresee is taking it in for service, I've heard horror stories.It far exceeded my expectations and I used to manage a BMW center. You know your in a German car. I drive L.A. traffic to do what I do and the freeways are a great test and will reveal a cars weaknesses and attributes. I drove the civic first and found it too under powered at 140 HP. The Jetta with 170 gets you there quick and can handle the Harbor Freeway well. Great gas mileage as well. My delivery at Pasadena VW was perfect.This has been a fun car to own and drive since I purchased it on 4/30/09 with about 55K miles so far. I love the handling and performance, plus the general comfort level of the interior. After driving a Buick Century for the last seven years, it was nice to get back into something that wasn't like driving an overstuffed pillow ! I have the basic "S" model, the only upgrade belong an automatic transmission and I really love this car. Even the basic model is so well equipped that I do not feel that I am driving a basic model. I recommend this car to anyone who respects and admires German engineering whose budget precludes an Audi or BMW. This car is a winner.Fuel economy is 45mpg on an 18 mile rt commute in traffic. All the comfort features we've wanted for years including bun warmers. Ample seating room front and back. Our next car will also be a Jetta TDII now had my 2009 TDI Wagon a full year now and have 15k on it, so I thought I would share my experience. The car has been flawless and has had no service issues at all. Mileage has been great at mid 40's on the hwy and mid 30's in the city. If you are going 65mph cruising it will get over 50mpg. My usual tank avg. is 38-40mpg with 2/3 hwy miles. The car is fun to drive especially with the 6spd. manual. Started right up in 30 below zero overnight weather last winter, no problems at all.After driving a Ford Crown Victoria for 18 years, it is going to take a while to get used to a smaller car where I feel and hear more of the road than I would like. The 16-inch rims and low profile tires give the car a sporty feel but I prefer the smoother ride of a large sedan. I took the Mercury Milan Hybrid on a test drive first but it was priced too high. It was smoother and quieter than the Jetta. I am impressed with the fuel efficiency after 500 miles. I am getting 34 mpg city and 47 highway while driving between 65-70 mph. When the piston rings are seated and the car is more broken in, I expect to do better. So far so good . I don't know the reliability yet because it's new.But I have to choose it to complete the review!I like it more than BMW because VW is quieter.I love driving the car, I went to look at a GLI but The wolfsburg is a better bang for the buck. even with the body kit I came $4K cheaper than the GLI. car is a looker and I get lots of compliments. The Nav system is amazing alsoAbsolutely amazing car. I just traded a 2000 A4 for the Jetta, as the A4 was ridiculously overpriced. I was hesitant about getting the Jetta, after driving the A4 for 10 years, but one test drive, and I couldn't wait to trade the Audi in. I have had the Jetta one week, and am thrilled with it. It is fun to drive, easy to drive, comfortable, and utilitarian. I think this is the best kept secret in the auto world....I was a reluctant VW buyer-I really wanted an Audi Avant but economic reality helped make the decision for me and I am very pleased with my purchase. I should state that I love European station wagons for their design, practicality and maximum space on a non SUV platform. I purchased a 2009 SE Jetta Wagon and whoever claimed they were "luxury economy cars" got it right. I once owned an Audi A4 and I loved it but this VW is as much fun! Forget the Passat wagon-if you love European wagons get this one and you will be thrilled at how much car it is for about $25,000!Bought the six speed manual in July and have put about 1200 miles on it so far. Got 41.5 mpg for the first 500 miles and 43 mpg for the second 500 miles (mostly highway but some stop and go). The car handles great and has good acceleration. I traded in my 2003 Passat and this car is almost as big as my Passat was. Not as luxurious as the Passat, but I didn't want to spend the extra money and I wanted the high gas mileage. Unlike a couple of the other reviewers, my air conditioning has been great (live near DC and it has been hot recently). Looks sharp - good head turning quotient. I had been driving a 99.5 Jetta TDI with 180k miles before buying this car. It had been quite reliable and is still running well, but I was ready for a new car. Cheapskate that I am, I put $500 down on a 2010 Prius which wasn't yet in the dealerships. I finally had a chance to drive the Prius and was moderately disappointed, so I went 10 minutes down the road and test drove the 2009 Jetta TDI. The driving experience was simply night and day. I expect that the Prius would have been more trouble-free and about the same cost per mile as the Jetta, I just couldn't bring myself to buy the Prius. The new TDI is SO smooth, powerful, quiet, and clean- smelling. I just wish the mpg was better.Went from a 2001 BMW 540i 6 speed to this vehicle with NO REGRETS. Wasn't even looking at this vehicle but my wife saw one, we test drove, and bought one that the dealer had coming in. Very lucky too to get VW rebate, low interest financing, and the $1,300 gov't refund. Glad I listened to others and got 6 speed, sunroof, and 17" rims. Added fog lamps and tinted the windows. Car looks great, has typical German Engineering, is a BLAST to drive, and gets great mileage so far (with only 2,500 miles, I'm getting 36 daily city/freeway and got 43 highway on a recent trip). Love all the room in back the wagon creates, its been great for hauling two black labs. I highly recommend this car.This is my first Diesel car. Like anyone who is considering the GAS vs. DIESEL debate we read so many online articles that we eventually got a headache. First Impression - We now have 700 miles on the car and on a 80 mile highway trip I averaged 42 mpg - driving 60-70 mph. Driving 75 or higher mpg dropped slightly. I have not been able to judge the city mileage yet. For anyone that is considering one best advice - test drive one. Great handling, good features, low road noise, and European design. Until I have to fill up I don't even realize I am driving a diesel. If diesel prices stay were they have been for my last three top offs it should pay for itself very quickly. You get what you pay 4Bought 2009 Jetta TDI. At 720 miles had a severe problem with the transmission. In park, with engine running shifted into reverse...trans acted like it was in neutral engine raced, shift indicator lights started blinking, depress brake pedal before starting light came on, and car went into reverse and lurched backwards almost hitting other car...next nite,10pm 50 miles per hour, engine goes into neutral even with gear in drive, gear light blinking brake pedal light on simultaneously.just like ex. above. Almost got rear ended. had car for less than week...now told need a transmission tear down and evaluation of all sensors. I want my car replaced with a new one!!!Terrible problems with the transmission...shifted from park to reverse...depress brake pedal light came on, and gear indicator light (prnds) started flashing and car slipped into neutral, but re- engaged...lurched backward and almost hit pasng car...then next night...driving 50 mph in drive...car jumped to neutral, engine raced to redline... gear shift indicator light started flashing and depress brake pedal light before starting light came on...almost got rear-ended by car behind me. Dealer said i have to have transmission torn apart and some type of sensor replaced...done research...found this problem exists, along with flywheel and mechatronic module...sent report to NHTSA...I bought my car on July 30th in Minnesota, and drove it 350 miles over the weekend, and 900 miles back to Colorado yesterday. I'm coming off of a BWM 328xi lease, so this is a step back in many ways, but BMW is too expensive right now. They wanted $30k for a buyout! For less than $19k, so far I'm feeling really good. I got Black, and I like the exterior styling. With tinted windows, it's a sharp car. I also like the tan leatherette interior - nice contrast to the Black. The quality of the cabin is excellent. Performance is pretty darn close to my 328xi from 0 to about 40, but then it lags the BMW. And I miss 6 speeds. Overall, a solid car, but will it go in the snow?I have had the vehicle for 1 week. Adverstised combined epa is 24 mpg. Dealership told me to expect to get a lot more. Took a roadtrip right away and foumd my highway mpg was 38 mpg (70 mph set on cruise). No Joke. I was shocked and thrilled. This is a regular 5 cylinder gas engine not the TDL. Seems to be a solid car with good looks. If reliability holds up I'll be very happy with my purchase.  light purchased car april 09,and really like the gas mileage esp. in town. Having problem with the DSG trans. slipping when on an incline. The trans. slips to neutral and the car starts to roll backwards for a few feet and then engages.Talked with dealer today and he said that was because the trans. goes to neutral at a stop. Offered no fix except possible software upgrade. Was wondering if any one else had same problem and what the fix was? Also added on a dimming mirror with homelink. This should be an option on sportwagon.The ratings I base on any car that's as fuel efficient as this one. Much more fun to drive than a hybrid, yet gets nearly the same mileage. Spacious, back seat fits adults, seats comfortable on a 1400 mile, three day trip. Be wary of the hype that the car will get over 50 mpg. Trying real hard I can get 45 - 46. Around town I've been getting much better than I'd guessed, 38 - 40. I have the manual and keep the car at 1500 rpms unless going uphill. Never needs to be at more than 2000 rpms unless in top gear, passing or entering a freeway. Averaging 70 mph you will be lucky to exceed 41 mpg. It's in the constant 50s and 60s that 46+mpg is possible.The Jetta in general closely approximates an entry level luxury sedan while being priced closer to more basic sedans. The TDI drive train provides tremendous performance with exceptional mileage (40+ mpg is easily obtained driving gently). At idle it sounds different than a gasoline engine but not objectionable. There is no diesel smell. Its acceleration and responsiveness are impressive. The trunk is large and easily accessible with a pass through for long objects. The cabin is comfortable for four. This car deserves to be very popular. I see no good reasons not to consider it if looking for a mid sized sedan.Great car. Traded in a Subaru Impreza which I liked but the VW is in a different league. More like a BMW or Audi. The car is almost perfect, just a few minor details such as the sunroof dial should be illuminated, everything else in the car is and at night you can't see where the dial is pointing.Like everyone else, fuel economy is in everyones mind. Driving a BMW 525 70 miles per day to work was getting expensive. Much shopping/research went on and the VW TDI SportWagen was the Ace of Hearts that we were looking for so the BMW went bye-bye. I look forward to driving this car everyday and thank God I was lucky enough to find one on the lot on my first visit to the VW dealer.I bought my Jetta wagon. Had fun purchasing and driving it. Left the dealership with 25 miles on it. 12 days later, at 540 miles the car beeped, red light flashed, air conditioning blew hot air. The needle on the temp gauge went to 260! all the way to the right. VW road service came. Towed the car to dealer. Needless to say, the thrill of the new car is gone, and doubt has set in. Until then I loved the car. Now I worry about reliability and high repair costs after warranty wears out. Dealer handling it well, just a disappointment to me that the car had problems before I even got my license plates.Just picked up my Jetta TDI Sportswagon last week and so far I'm loving it. Fun to drive, handles great, the turbo is a real kick. Perfect size after driving mini-vans for the last 19 years. Plenty of cargo area in the back, seats are comfortable. A/C works great and cools down the car within a couple of minutes. So far I'm still on my first tank of gas but at 175 miles I've only used a quarter of a tank of gas. Nice to finally have a car I look forward to driving. I traded a 2005 Avalon Touring for a Sportswagon TDi. I got a good deal on my trade-in and $1300 tax CREDIT for buying a high mileage car! These cars are a little hard to find though. Routine Maintenance is covered for 3 years. I was looking for a car that I loved to drive. This feels like most other German engineered cars..tight, precise handling, good firm ride, and a unique driving experience. The last car I enjoyed driving this much was my CTS. This car broke the Guiness 48 state mileage world record..58.8mpg! Now you wont get this kind of mileage, expect 35-38 general driving, and 45-48 on the interstate. But this little turbo diesel is wonderful! Powerful, quiet and extremely efficientGreat Car for the money. Paid 23,000.00 feels like the 08 Audi A4 I test drove. Same engine but costs 10-15 grand less. Excellent build quality and fit and finish. Handles better and more solid then Japanese competition. The car is a great car for the money! It is also a great car to throw around, handles like a dream. I went to the VW dealer with the intend of buying a used A4. So far I'm not regretting the decision to by a new Jetta when it comes time to make the monthly payment. I would think the gas mileage for this size of car should be better. But the gas mileage is coming in as advertised (plus its too much fun driving this car with a heavy foot).Drive nearly 30k miles/year. 6 speed makes this car fun to drive. unless you spend a lot of time in traffic, I would suggest no buying DSG. Tried the DSG, but felt like it hesitated slightly from a stop. Good ergonomics. Simple interior yet comfortable and inviting. Great for running errands or long trips. Fold down seats give it versatility for skiing, etc. Average 47-50 mpg highway and nearly 40 combined. We bought it to replace my wife's 1999 Olds Cutlass with 51,000 miles bought new from the same dealer 10 years go. We compared it to the Prius and the VW SportWagonTDI won. We just finished our 1st long trip (800 miles) in it and are totally satisfied. Keep in mind my car is a 2004 GMC Denali all wheel drive and loaded. I am 6'7" tall and 280 lbs the VW has plenty of room. It has as much head room as my Denali. We averaged 33.6 MPG calculated from gas tickets after driving 80-90 mph on Interstate and 4o-60 MPH on two lane roads from Savannah to Apacatchacola. It is not even broken in yet and the mpg is impressive.The '09 Jetta diesel is powerful, economical, safe, and well-built. Forget the EPA rating, you'll get 40-45 MPG driving sensibly. Just note it is not a car for short-commute city drivers; stop-and-go and short commutes where the engine never warms up will cream your mileage (though you should still see mid-to-high 30s). This is a full-sized powerful sedan that handles like a luxury car but gives the same or better fuel economy than toy cars such as the 'Smart' or any hybrid you care to name. Do yourself a favor and test-drive it.So I bought this car in April and just got it back the other day after it being fixed for a month. At the end of May I was on the Interstate and hit a deer in the left lane...Airbags went off and I spun into the middle lane because the deer hit me from the side/quarterpanel. The airbags didn't hurt me. I was fine, and I was lucky, but I think this car kept me safe because it pretty much crunched in to absorb all the impact. I was sad to see my brand new car smashed up but I was OK, and now it's fixed so it doesn't matter. I had a Jetta when I was 17 and got into an accident with that too. They are built to keep you safe. Have only had this car about a week. Had a 97 Jetta and loved it and love the new one just as much so far. It is fun to drive even though it only has a 5cylinder engine. Standard equipment is great for the price. The rearview mirror is a pain to adjust and the side mirrors whistle above 50mph, but overall, love the new Jetta!Had to take back to dealer after 450 miles when engine light came on. Oxygen sensor needed to be replaced. First non-Japanese car so I'm hoping reliability isn't too much of an issue. Purchased for gas mileage, sporty nature and uniqueness, durability of diesel engine. I drive many highway miles. Standard radio has very tinny sound, not for listening to music. Will need to upgrade. Air conditioning is weak. Vents hardly blow out much cold air. No complaints about the ride, acceleration or gas mileage. Feels solid and looks good. I am still breaking in the car with only 120 miles driven. I am impressed by the engine and DSG transmission. Very smooth shifts while accelerating, and seems to find the correct gear for each situation. However,at very low speeds there is too much engine braking due to no fluid coupling so some small amount of lurching is sensed. The interior is very attractive and seems well made. The only complaint thus far is the front seats which are too hard. I hear this is a German car trait, but this doesn't impress my behind. The car and dealership are excellent overall. My only concern is as follows: The trani started leaking fluid from the bell housing at 730 miles and when I brought it to the dealer, it was diagnosed as a seal problem with internal damage. A new transmission was installed which VW approved and shipped to the dealer quickly. The dealer paid for a rental car while the Jetta was being repaired. The car was returned in excellent condition after four days and now runs perfectly with no leaks. The car has so many positive qualities and the dealer handled the situation professionally. I would definitely buy another car from the dealer even though this was an unusual and disturbing event. Test drove VW Passat, CC and Nissan Altima before purchasing. Clearly the Passat and CC were smoother rides, but the Jetta definitely out performed the Altima in terms of performance and features. If the Jetta had some of the cosmetic features the Passat or CC had, it'd be a perfect car. Then again if it did, who'd buy a Passat or CC?Good handling and really fun to drive. Torque is excellent. Small problems like rubber seal on door is coming off and rear passenger light switch pops open. Have to take it back to dealer for these repairs. Great miles and feels like a more expensive car, very roomy. Wish it was more aerodynamic. Got the car in white and all bugs splatter all over hood, fender and windows. I bought my '09 Jetta TDI sedan in January and I just passed 10K miles a few weeks ago. Recently took it in for the FREE 10K service, which is a nice plus, as the '09 comes with 36K no charge service. So far I love it! The ride is smooth, somewhat tight, and very easy to handle. Acceleration is phenomenal considering the mpg. The diesel is quiet but has a nice exhaust note when pushed. Fit and finish are near perfect. The seats are very comfortable but not soft and cushy. The dash is clean and un-cluttered. Plenty of room for even the tallest drivers, but a smallish back seat. The trunk is decent size and pass through storage is handy.I have put almost 12,000 miles on this car and have enjoyed it with one exception. . They actually found out that this car, being one of the first manual TDI wagons, was running too clean and choking itself. It behaved much better after the EGR valve replacement. Fussy clutch in 1st until it was broken in. It likes to hiccup after startup during the first minute the engine is warm.(Part of EGR software issue) A software upgrade was performed last week, but still have the problem. I drive aggressively and get 32 MPG around town,36 HWY. Drove 525.5 miles on one tank road trip and got 41.2 MPG . A great highway cruiser and fun to drive. With just 8000 miles on the car and two recent long trips. The mileage continues to improve. 42 to 44 combined with the AC running. 6 speed manual transmission and engine are smooth, plenty of power. A round trip of 800 miles each way average speed 70 mph. Cost less than $87 in fuel costs. Nearly 640 miles per tank full (14 gal). Car is comfortable, and responsive. Loaded with extras, like the 120 volt AC outlet. This is standard on this car. Very quiet, smooth ride. A car you feel safe in. Plenty of space in the trunk. Needs to be driven before you spend your money on a trendy Hybrid. How long will there batteries last? And how much will they cost to replace?Bought an '09 TDI Saturday. I can finally thumb my nose at the gas pumps. Great ride, good pick-up, and the MPG is unbelievable. The only way you can tell it's a diesel is to look at the truck lid and see the letters TDI.Fantastic Car. Super fun to drive. Reliable so far...Great handling car. Great looks, comfort and MPG. A solid car.This is one well made machine. Handles like its on rails. Great lines and its a TDI to boot. I can now thumb my nose at the gas pumps.I was in the market for either a BMW 3 series or Audi A4. The prices were too much. I found the Jetta 2009 Wolfsburg AM and took it for a test drive and was VERY impressed. Very close to the Audi. Great car bumper to bumper and the dealership (Palisades) was great unlike the BMW and Audi dealerships I went to. This car is very responsive with great handling. It is the Audi A4 without all the glamor and that is ok with me because I saved the extra $13-$15K in my pocket. You will not find a similar sedan in American or Japanese for the price.Purchased this car in October 2008 and have put 12,000 miles on already. So far, it has performed perfectly and my mileage continues to improve the more the car is broken in. Had a small rattle from the seat belt but it was quickly replaced at the dealer. Installed studded snow tires to battle the Utah snow and it never misplaced me. First gear with a manual trans is a bit touchy around town but quite fun otherwise. If you are in stop and go traffic, go for the automatic. Don't let the fake leather stop you from buying, it actually looks pretty nice and no one ever questions otherwise. Would definitely buy over again.For an interstate commute of 90 miles a day the TDI Jetta is fantastic. Plenty of power ( relative, of course ) high comfort, and excellent design and build quality. Consumption so far averaging around 44 mpg. Having had rental car diesels in Europe, the Jetta is the best of the mass market ones.Wow... the difference in the drive and feel compared to the Camry Hybrid is incredible. I feel like I am driving a car again. It corners beautifully and gets better mileage then the Hybrid. My trunk space has doubled since I no longer have a battery in the back. It's roomy and very comfortable and was $10,000 less then the Camry. Everything is better... the controls on the steering wheel are positioned correctly and all the controls in the car are very intuitive... it does not take a genius to figure anything out. A solid car with great mileage at a solid price.I have owned this car for approximately 3 months. I have 10,856 miles on the odo. The average "real world" economy w/o soft peddling (driving like hybrid owners) is 36.5 mpg combined cycle of which I would say 80% of my miles are highway. I feel that this car could give much higher fuel economy by simply adding a 7th gear or OD for the highway. If you drive the vehicle, you will notice that the engine revs at a higher rpm. With diesel engines having very good low end torque, dropping the revs by 400 rpm could boost fuel economy to a level that could surpass any hybrid in the market.This car is wonderful love the fuel mileage,rides well on long trips ,sound system is above average. Very satisfied with quality of equipment. Would recommend this car over Accord and Camry much better valueI traded in a hybrid for the increased power and nominal trade-off in mileage. I love the amount of power in the diesel engine while still getting great gas mileage. Passing, accelerating, cruising, are all easy and confident maneuvers that were frenetic in the hybrid. I'm completely hooked on torque with so much available at a low rpm. I'm hoping that more companies come out with diesels to provide some good competition to this one.This is the first Volkswagen that I've ever owned. I looked at others in its class and the features that are standard on the Jetta are better then the other vehicles out there. The Jetta has been a fun car to drive and almost makes me feel young again. I am disappointed with the A.C.. It does not produce alot of cold air. The car has 1400 miles and has been a hoot to go through city driving. We average about 35-36 mpg. We have yet to really put it on the highway for a long haul, but we will next week. We have gotten as high as 38mpg, but hope to see some 40+mpg. The car had marks in the paint due to shipping, but was corrected by the dealer. The radio sound is great and the seats are most comfortable. I love coming to a light and leading the traffic with this little jewel. This is really the wife's car, but I drive it when I am with her. The mileage does drop 1-2 mpg when using the air conditioner. The panoramic moon roof is really neat and does not feel hot inside with the sun screen shade covering. I drive this car every day and it gets better than rated mileage. On longer trips have gotten up to 49 mpg. The acceleration is good for a compact, the steering is tight, and its fun to drive. would like to see a few more options available. So far the best new vehicle I have ever purchased. well over 50 mpg on highway and over 36 in town. A real hot rod that gets great mileage.Great design with great handling. Turbo is quick with power to spare. Car has all the great options needed and a great sounding stereo. First time foreign car owner so hoping it's a good one!Since purchased it has meet all my needs. Exceptional mileage, worst 40 mpg best 53 mpg. Just what I was looking for, fells strong drving over bad roads. Comfortable even for 6 footers. Only issue getting to it before my wife. Although it only has 4000 miles if it maintains 80% of what it is now, I will buy a new one again.We test drove a 2009 Jetta TDI wagon to compare it to our 2002 TDI wagon. Our 2002 gets mileage almost 10 mpg higher than the 2009. Fit and finish are about the same. With diesel now lower priced than gas here in our state, and teh difference in mileage, we will keep running our 2002 for a long time to come. After VW screwed up and lowered the mileage, find yourself a 2002 or 2003 TDI diesel if you can and buy that instead. They command a huge price premium in our area being they are so much better than the 2009 models. Love this Wagon, and have found new features while using it on a road trip. One BIG problem is that the seats hug your back and don't let your lower back rest normally onto the seat. It almost squeezes your upper back and doesn't allow for proper breathing. Besides that, very happy with the my VW and would recommend it to anyone.My 2009 Jetta SE Automatic is about 3 weeks old, with 2500 miles. Went on one trip of about 700 miles (2 days). Car is very comfortable, great seats, firm ride, low wind/road noise, and loved the Sirius satellite radio. Transmission is very smooth and going up and down hills on the interstate through upstate Pennsylvania (very hilly) did not upset this transmission or cruise control. Always smooth and had plenty of power, with no straining or slowing on the hills. All the controls are simple and easy to use without taking your eyes off the highway. This seems to be a trait that many car designers no longer seem to remember!Just purchased so no idea yet as to mileage or reliability so rated them a 5. But it certainly is fun to drive; handles well, peppy, comfortable ergonomics. Got it with the panoramic sunroof which is a nice feature, here's hoping it doesn't leak over time. Overall, appears to be a well built, functional, fun vehicle.This is a great car for the money! I enjoy driving it in the mountains of So. California. It handles great and has massive brakes when you need to whoa up. I get decent gas mileage considering the amount of power it has.I just put 10,000 miles on this car and have loved every mile of it! It looks and drives like it costs $10,000 more. The DSG transmission is a ton of fun and sport mode always helps me get to school on time. This car is leagues above its Japanese competitors in the performance and handling areas. Definitely opt for the 2.0 turbo engine because it seems more refined. The fuel economy is as advertised (20/29).We have owned our YDI Jetta for 2 months and have nothing but great things to say about it. The mileage has been 42 MPG average with about 60/40 highway/city driving. Neither my wife or I really try too hard with the mileage so I feel that those are good numbers. The car itself is very comfortable and has many creature comforts not seen in other "Fuel Misers". We went through Costco Auto Buying Program which was very stress free and we got dealer invoice which with the $1300 tax credit is less then a similarly equipped Prius and no batteries to worry about down the road. We are x3 VW owners and have had good lluck with the reliability so we'll see in a few years and 100000 mi.I wanted a car that performed well and gets excellent economy and I got it! Economy - 39.76 MPG over 1965.9 miles (based on miles/gallons). I couldn't be more pleased with its performance (what wonderful torque), steering, handling and ride. Fit and finish are excellent and I love its understated, elegant interior. I have DSG and I'm very pleased with it. I do wish though that there was more manual control at low speeds in Manual Mode. Overall, I think this is the best car I have owned. I traded in a 2007 BMW 328 XI.We got this TDI last month it is a great car. It is put together well, the engine pulls hard. We haven't broken the engine in all the way yet and we've been getting 35-41 mpg mixed. Everything on the dash is laid out nicely, easy to reach.After waiting for 4 months I got my TDI in early December. We have about 6500 miles on it now and have had no problems whatsoever. We usually drive around town averaging 36 to 38 MPG. I drove on a highway trip of about 200 miles and got 49.6 MPG keeping the speed to no more than 65. We really enjoy driving the car. It handles well and is very comfortable. The 6 months of free satalite radio was a plus I didn't expect. The height adjustable seats are great. I'm a little taller than the wife and with both of us driving the car it makes it easier to get a comfortable driving position. We really enjoy the car. If your thinking about buying one check it out! I am a 76 yr old that still likes performance. The acceleration is amazing. And that is the only thing that will make you realize it is a diesel. However maintaining speed in traffic is annoying. Especially when braking. It seems the auto transmission wants to help slow you down. This should make the brakes last , but a real pain trying to maintain driving distance. The cruise control must have been designed by Mr Volkswagen's kid. Long over due for modernization. The wipers are backwards to every one else's. Fuel cap is on right side, real handy AARGH I bought TDI after putting too much thought and reading excellent reviews buy other proud owners. I would say they are spot on!! this is a very fun to drive car amazing torque and handling zipping around in city is a blast do not under estimate the low end torque you absolutely do not need to rev to pass or make a quick lane change. averaged about 4o MPG on a 800 mile HWY trip cruising 65-75 mph, still breaking in, I heard it takes about 5000 miles for diesel to just break-inI love the ESP which makes winter driving less scary for me: a noticeable improvement on my last car, a Sentra that performed horribly in winter weather, no matter how careful I was. It will even let you know when the tire pressure is low. Throw in heated seats, heated sideview mirrors, an outside temperature gauge and a nice, non-plasticy interior and the 2009 Jetta becomes a classier economy car. I stick with premium gas. Yeah, I know it's more expensive but it all comes out in the wash. The fuel efficiency on premium is noticeably better and I can actually accelerate up steep inclines even without putting the transmission into S. It's comfy, too. Instant comradery with other VW drivers.Who needs an SUV? I work for a band and haul equipment all the time, but wanted something a little smaller for parking downtown. The VW wagon ticked both boxes, and was actually the roomiest wagon in this price range. If you can swing for the diesel, do it, but the base 5-cylinder has quite a bit to recommend it. Throw in standard heated seats and a telescoping wheel and you get a very refined and functional package for not a lot of money. Tall guys fit well, and legroom in the back is decent. Spring for the winter floor mats. Niggles are few. First gear is too short, and gas mileage isn't what it should be for a car this size. Still, I'd buy it again.I leased my Jetta because VW offered a too good to pass offer. I got an S model with roof and wheels. It is a great looking car and I get a lot of compliments on it. It is a lot of fun to drive. I have the 5 spd. and the performance is great. I am a former SCCA road racer and this car handles and drives great. The features this car has at this price point is unbelieveable. It is one of the best cars I have ever owned and there is nothing about it I don't like. Porsche obviously has fixed the problems that VW was known for, and this car is a huge value for the money. I have driven many more expensive cars, but few have more features than this VW. A great buy for the money.I have had my car for about a week and am very happy with it. My first half-tank of diesel has gotten me 350 miles! Beyond that, it's a car with excellent fit-and-finish, great sound, smooth ride, and a classy feel. It feels like I bought a much more expensive car. There is plenty of room for four people, and there is ample hip, shoulder, and leg room. The car is fun to drive, has unbelievable torque and accelerates nicely.I bought this car mainly for commuting duty (90% highway driving) as I drive 65 miles daily round-trip. The DSG transmission is extremely smooth and a good investment. The ride is smooth and comfortable at highway speeds. The combined package of high mpg, comfortable ride, good handling, safety features, cargo room, resale value, and $1300 tax credit made it a no-brainer for me. The only problem was finding one. I found the exact car I wanted, but it had the DVD/Nav. I decided to buy anyway to avoid the 3- 4 month wait of a factory order. I've only been driving the car a few days, but I really like it don't regret the purchase. Feels more Audi-like than my 2006 BMW 330i.The last car I owned that was actually fun to drive was a 1988(?) VW Jetta. This car may not be quite in that class but it's hella more fun to drive than the trucks and SUVs I've had over the past 20 years or so. My reliability rating is based on only 1 week of ownership, but so far so good. Since nothing has gone wrong, I give it a 10.Great gas mileage and plenty of power. Runs so quiet you would never know it was a diesel. Heated seats are comfortable for a small car. I'm glad we settled with the VW TDI. We couldn't be happier with this car as of now. Love all the safety features built into the car. The auto-transmission gears down like no car I have ever driven. Fun to drive and responsive. Why would anyone buy a hybrid when you can drive the VW TDI.After researching what kind of SUV I wanted, I decided on the Tiguan. Happen to be in Florida on vac, they had a good deal, I bought and drove the car to New York. Drive was a lot of fun. Vehicle seems solid, firm ride. I get asked about it by passerbys. Brake is very responsive, quite interior. Some minor issues I do have: motorized driver reclining seat, but manual pump lever to elevate and move seat..why not motorize all, summer humidity seems to bring out a bad smell from air exhaust when it's not on a/c, engine is powerful, but there seems to be a delay in responsiveness when u go from braking to quickly accelerating, but then it eventually picks up when you press harder on the pedalI got my 2009 Tig in may of 2008 before better deals were to be had. Oh well... I love the car itself. It has been great and I get complements on it all the time. People stop me to ask about it. I sometimes wish I would've splurged and gotten the one with the sunroof. The car is great in city and hwy and I'm amazed at how well it insulates outside noise. Feels very solid throughout. I agree with some comments about the black upholstery, it is a hair magnet. I had an issue with a faulty fuel pump which was quickly replaced under warranty. That's been the only issue I currently have 11K miles in the Tig.After one year... I love the power, handling and design of this car. I was looking for a sporty, fast cuv that could still accommodate a three year old and all that entails. This car does that. That being said, driving home from the dealer I noticed (it was at night) I could only see 3 ft ahead of me. Took car back to find lights were ill- positioned. 6 months later I had to get the fuel pump replaced. Already had to get burned out drivers head lamp replaced and there is an awful squeek inside that I can't seem to find/fix. I like the car but am wary about what to expect in year 2. Imo, quality is really lacking. I am thinking of trading it in already, which saddens me as it is fun to drive.I have had my new White SE Tiguan for 1 month and I am really enjoying driving again. I sold my 9 year old Camry and do not miss it one bit (it was very reliable but BORING, yet the gas mileage was great). I can't rate the reliability yet, but so far I am very pleased, and no real quality issues to address, but I do agree that the Turbo is rather jerky at times and leaving from a stop light turning right it is jerky accelerating to get going, almost like I am driving a stick in a low gear (which I do not have the manual, and I have no need or desire to use the shifting option). The dealer really came down on the sticker price - I got the pricing below a comparable Honda CRV/or RAV4. I came from a Land Rover LR3 to a 2009 Tiguan. Love the same features of the Land Rover, but disappointed about the room inside. I have (2) dogs and cannot fit much else except them. Also cannot get over the fact there are no armrests in the middle, having to use the console seems odd. Also just ran over a nail on one of the tires and have to have it replaced. The 18" Pirelli's that are on the Tiguan are on national backorder - odd sized tire as well. Not sure if they are good snow tires from what I have researched on the Pirelli website. Gas mileage not what I expected, only averaging 21 mpg on the highway. Overall not quite sure I made the best choice. Should have stayed in my LR3Traded down from a full size SUV to the Tiguan one month ago and absolutely love it. Getting about 20 - 22 mpg in mostly city driving, so a really nice improvement from 13-14 previously. Car drives very sporty, plenty of room inside for a 6' 4'' driver with kids in the back seat. Styling and design are good. My kids like riding in this car better than the BMW 5 series.after 3900 miles, my EPC warning light appeared on the dash. Acceleration was lost and the car sporadically regained power, only to lose it again. A few days later the Engine Malfunction icon also appeared. The car is now destined for a few days in the shop.Shame on us for not taking a closer look at the car during delivery, after we arrived home we noticed holes in the front bumper. Apparently the car was transferred from a dealer in a state that required front licence plates, in Michigan they are not required. First call was to the dealer - "sorry nothing we can do, but good news we do have a new bumper in stock if you would like to buy a replacement". Well, OK, then. So step two: call VW customer support. They happily assigned a "customer advocate" who called the following day. To quote: "sorry but this is an issue between you and the dealer, there is nothing we will do!" - WOW - what a great case study poor for customer support. I suppose I had higher expectations since my other vehicles are classy sedans or coupes. Going from a sedan or coupe to one of these SUVs is not something a "driver" would be happy with. It's great for tossing large objects into, but even then, a minivan is better suited to people that want to haul stuff, including people. Otherwise, it's just another "L" on wheels. I researched a number of crossovers. Ford Edge, Mazda cx-7, audi q5, nissan rouge, toyota venza, ford escape, saturn vue, honda crv. The Tiguan was the one that gave me the best value, the best handling, free scheduled maintenance, and VW reputation. The back seat is comfortable for adults to ride. The cargo space is awesome. This vehicle is awesome. The drive is very tight for its class and the appointments are similar to my Passat 4-motion wagon. The 4-motion is a definite plus and the ride is superb. It is definitely not a car for the everyday Joe or Jane and thats the way my wife and I like it. I can't imagine a 200 HP Rogue, Rav4, or CRV. I feel this vehicle sits similarly to a land rover but with a lower, more stable center of gravity. There are no unnecessary and gaudy amenities which would push up the price for many other makes. Plus, its a VW and you can't touch that. I do wish that a diesel version was available but I'll just have to wait, hope, and wish for the 2011 model to be a TDI. I bought my Tiguan after several months of looking at small SUV's. Each time I kept coming back to the Tiguan. I thought I would get a CRV, but the power isn't there and there are far too many on the road. I wanted to like the Acura RDX as an Acura TL owner. While I liked it, the gas mileage (poor) and cost (high) prevented the deal. The Ford Escape Hybrid just didn't have the fit and finish. The Tiguan was the best bet for me: good value, my bike fit inside, still somewhat uncommon on the road, nice looking, and just a great all around package. Six weeks into it and I still love it as much as the day I bought it.I have driven 30,000 miles in the deserts of Las Vegas and get 22 -23 MPG aroung town and 26 - 28 on the highway. I have had the services done and am sitting at the dealer having the 30 mile service performed as I write this. Th rear brakes need to be changed at $270 and the front are still 80%. All the tires are still good. 30,000 miles and the front brakes are at 80%, this is awesome. Look up brakes on the Toureg and you will see every 15k to 20k miles at 4 times the cost of the Tiguan. This SUV has been flawless, you cannot go wrong. I test drove the CRV and love the looks, however, the interior seemed cheap and the ride was not as quite. I cannot praise the vehicle enough.All in all very happy with this new purchase, coming from a BMW I have high expectations but I was surprised with how much I liked this CUV. Has enough pep on the highway with the added turbo that I don't realize it's only a 4 cyl. Interior is very classy and comfortable, definitely has a luxury feel!After almost a year and a half of research, I finally decided to go with the VW Tiguan. Moving from a Ford Explorer AWD V8, this is definitely a change. The Tiguan is lower so its height is somewhere in between a mid-size SUV and a car. The ride is great considering the wheel-base, yet still offers plenty of room for four adults to travel comfortably. The 4 cylinder has obviously less power, but it'll move when it's needed. I was initially worried about cargo space, and while it is certainly smaller than what I'm used to, it allows for most common trips the store without having to put the seats down. All in all, very pleased. I'm hoping this vehicle lasts for a while.Build quality and performance are on the top of my list. Reliablity, we'll see as time goes on but at this point everything is spot on with the Tiguan. Surprisingly nimble, although the Michilein tires on the S model are not up to the handling capabilities of the chassis. At 6'4" comfort is not a problem in this CUV, good leg and head room, cargo capacity is as expected but much more than my sports sedan I traded in. Interior materials, seats dash and carpets are very good quality as are fit and finish of the exterior. Color match on the rear fascia is slightly off color for the White Gold but not enough to complain over.Moving from larger suv but wanted all its features minus size. This suv fits the bill. Excellent fit and finish. The 4-cylinder turbo is the best of its class. The ride is stiff but ergonomically sound. The Tiguan has highest rating on all categories of safety including roof strength by the IIHS. Interior is thoughtfully planned out. You pay more for this vehicle versus the other small suvs out there but you get more.IMO the tiguan wins Best in Class. It is the ONLY vehicle in comparison that Ive found comfortable, font and back for tall people. Im 6'4 and the Tig is the sweetest ride Ive tested outside of the full sized SUVs. Editors seem to only have two complaints - the price tag is higher and it has marginally less cargo space. I cant argue the sticker - but lets be honest. Yes, that will sacrifice 2MPG, but the solid acceleration and grip on the road is the benefit. Cargo space? If the difference is that important you should probably be looking at the full sized. Great VW !I moved up from a compact car to a compact SUV to accommodate my growing family and deal with the decaying CA roads. The Tiguan is right-sized for urban life in the Bay Area, quite compact exterior for nimble driving and parking, but a very spacious interior. In comparison, Rav4 and CRV are weird/dull/dated. I had hopes for the Forester but the interior was extremely cheap - read the reviews. The Tiguan is in a class of its own for build quality, design, and driving experience. More expensive yes but better value as I will be enjoying this for many years. The 2.0T engine is fantastic, I feel I have the GTI from my youth wrapped in a responsible family package with all safety features.I have the SE level with the sunroof. There is no words to describe how fun to drive this car can be. The quality of materials is obvious along with the beauty of designs. Pick up is amazing and smooth and the suspension is the perfect combination between sport and sedan. Not only were the dealers at VW ready to deal, the financing was great. I get compliments on this car all the time, people stare at it on the road too. I am very happy I purchased a car that is not ubiquitous and that allows me the freedom to enjoy rides with the sunroof fully open.Top class car. Refined, precise and hi tech. Options may add up the price. Very powerful, fast and agile. 4 motion is awesome. Interior is incredibly classy. There is simply no comparison to this car at this time. My first SUV. I agonized over it because of the mpg. I needed a bigger vehicle, but something smaller than the CRV/RAV4 - also with a nicer interior. I tried to love the CRV because my Civic was such a good car, but couldn't. VW is built much better. The steering freaked me out a bit at first but I'm getting used to it. I don't understand why at times it feels disconnected from the car. It does drive like a car and I like the boost from the turbo engine. Headlights from larger vehicles no longer shine in my rear view mirror or to be deluged by water when larger vehicles would pass me on wet highways. Hopefully my love will continue to grow and I'll feel better about getting such low mpg.My car is only a moth old and they already replace gas cap due to engine light on. After a few months later another problem occur fuel gauge not working & showing fuel tank not full. Number on the dash board keep changing and not accurate.I traded my 07 Altima SL in for this car and so far so good. I wish it had a few more bells and whistles for the price tag but other than that it's great. It's a little bit tight on interior space but for right now it's a good fit for my family of 4. Seating is comfy, has a descent stock stereo system with an ipod adapter. I got mine with the 3 years of free maintenance which will save me a few hundred. Overall I'm happy with this car.It's no GTI, but for a CUV it is the best out there in its price range. Handling and composure on all road surfaces is excellent. Not skittish like the RAV4 V6, and better gas mileage than the Acura RDX. Fit and finish is better than the Honda CRV. Comfortable and quiet interior, controls are simple and in the right places. The 2.0T motor is smooth and refined with plenty of kick when you need it. And don't be put off by the high MSRP as large discounts can be had. Flemington VW was awesome, with no pressure and knowledgeable salespeople.Traded up from a 2002 Pontiac Grand Prix. I researched cars for about 6 months prior to test-driving and this was one of my top pics. If you are thinking of purchasing a Honda CR-V or Toyota Rav-4, be sure to check out the Tiguan before making your final decision! Driving this car is a lot of fun! I was very impressed with the overall quality I got for the price. I think the positives of this vehicle have been covered pretty thoroughly to this point. For me, it was this or a CRV, and the deal I received from VW just crushed what Honda was willing to do. Sticker on my SE was 29,115. Final purchase price was 25,604. Both of the preceding figures are pretax. I put $2000 down and financed the remainder @ 0% for 60 months. Honda thought I was making stuff up, $3600 off MSRP plus 0% for 5 years. VW is definitely trying to move inventory, I guess Honda isn't desperate enough yet. I absolutely love the vehicle though, but I've only had it for a week so reliability is tough to judge at this point. Absolutely zero buyer's remorse to this point.This little SUV is awesome! Love the handling, great pick-up! Stylish and unique - I haven't seen another one on the road yet. Love it even more than my CRV - which I never thought possible. I got the base model (sunroofs get to hot in FL!), but my dealership upgraded me to leather seats. With the tinted windows and wood-trim kit, this ride is styling! People stop me all the time to ask about it!I traded my 2008 Nissan Rogue SL AWD ater 21K miles for this Tiguan SE 4motion because of the better features, ride, handling, acceleration, and build quality.The car is the best engineering product I have found in the market today for the money. VW truly is the best kept secret in terms of quality,features,value, and fun to drive. After much research on moving up from a zippy and efficient Mazda 3, and having test drove several competitors, the new Tiguan, stood out from the crowd. Am impressive array of features on the SE 4MOTION, sports-type handling, great vroom on the pedal, comfortable surrounds AND VW of America's 0% financing make this perhaps the best deal in America.Wanted a GTI but rear seat room was just too small. Manual transmission and higher ingress/egress makes this fit my desire for fun and my need for comfort. Would have preferred a manual transmission with the ability to also have nav, sunroof, heated seats and AWD, but VW did not give me that option. I have found base 'S' model's cloth seats do not get as cold as leather seats so I have not yet gone to the aftermarket for heated seats. It is more quiet than my BMW and Chevy Tahoe. It tracks well and has lots of storage cubbies, including a hidden one to the left of steering wheel. Drawers under the seats like the European models would have been nice. Bring on the TDI with a stick!This is our 2nd Tiguan, which we picked up just in time to use the 4-Motion against New England snow. Incredible! Very sure-footed in this slop, & a real hoot to drive. The kids love the panoramic moon-roof... it is about as much exposure one can have to the sky without getting a convertible. The Tiguan's Xenon headlamps have peripheral sidelights which activate and illuminate the sides of the road whenever you make a turn. Very nice to have on twisting roads, sharp corners, dark parking lots, city streets, etc. The Tiguan is also a very quiet car for the small SUV/CUV segment. No high pitched whine & road-noise like I experienced with the Toyota RAV4 and CRV. We traded our beloved 2005 Jetta 2.5 for our Tiguan. I loved driving our Jetta, but I have to say the Tiguan is more fun to drive. You can get into trouble with the police zipping around with this SPORT utility. Fit and finish is great. I'm a big fan of VW's electric steering, very smooth. I like the nylon seats they warm up quick, very comfortable. Visibility is good. I enjoy the sunroof, can't wait for summer. AWD has been been great this winter.I bought the first Tiguan to hit Colorado in May. I have put 32000+K miles on it and I love it! I am in sales, drive 50+K miles per year and insist on being comfortable. It is such a fun car to drive but I have picked up 2 speeding tickets since purchasing the car. The sunroof is great!! 6 cd stereo is great!! When I use Super gas I get 28+mpg - it drops to 23mpg when I cheap out on the gas. Stock tires are not so great - I already need a new set. The car has a tendency to slide in the snow even with AWD - breaks do need to be checked. Upgrade from the "Sports Cloth" seats - I wish I had been warned that the cloth shows EVERYTHING and dog hair does not come off. An update to my original post in June of 08. This car is still doing everything I expect and then some. I have used premium since day 1 and haven't thought different. This car still gets me roughly 26-27mpg (goin 70mph down the highway), I still love the comfort of the automobile (drove to Myrtle Beach and back from DC, and was very comfortable with 3 other adults, luggage, and 2 golf bags). The style is still cool and I don't regret one thing about this car. The quality is great, the ride is smooth, and its still fun for me. There is ample storage space (I don't have sunroof) and its VERY safe (read the safety ratings that came out last year and see who was on top). Great car, I love it!Picked up our new White Gold w/Beige SEL 4-Motion a week ago but had to drive 4+ hours to get it due to the non-availability of what we wanted in our area. Great vehicle and I broke a personal cardinal rule about buying a car the first year it's offered because I was so impressed with it. The rear-view camera didn't work but the techs at my local dealer found a loose connection behind the radio. They rebuilt the connection and it works just fine. There is also some wind noise from the roof rails. There is plenty of room and comfort front and back and the acceleration & handling is fantastic. We'll see how the mileage works out as it breaks in over the next month or soMy 09 SEL has only been home 2 days. I must say going from the Touareg to the Tiquan was a step down for me. But the cost of gas plus the 1800 brake job on the Touareg made up my mind quick. I think dealers should disclose the high cost of maintenance. You can rest assured I checked out the cost to replace brakes on the Tig! I love all the features! Opted not to have the nav sys. Rather use my phone nav. Have everything else. With the limited supply and end-of-year incentives (they were gr8), had to settle for the blue-pretty though. The only down side I experienced was the negotiation at the dealer! I HATE that part of purchasing a car! Otherwise, I am happy so far! Happy Drivin VW Folk!Purchased the Tiguan in Aug, 2008 and now have 5000 miles. Two round trips to north of Atlanta, and no problems. No problem passing a vehicle or entering the Interstate, just put the pedal to the medal and this baby scoots. Many great compliments about it's sporty good looks. Just fun to drive. My wife has no problem getting me to run errands!!! My heavy foot may be the cause of the not so great gas mileage I've heard other reviewers reporting. Only about 25mpg averageFirst VW since my 1974 rust bucket bug. Love the power, handling, utility and the price. I bought the base model with the manual tranny. This is one really fun and tight ride. An excellent balance of comfort and crisp handling. I have owned an acura, Nissan, Chevy, Ford and nothing compares to the quality so far. I know VW critics abound, for good reason (and that is why I bought the extended warranty) but I have known quite a few VW'ers who have had good luck w/ their vehicles. Don't know what noir authentique is talking about with the "cargo area is useless" comment, but this is a compact with very Nice interior room for the passengers and I fit 9 full size cases of beer in the cargo area.I normally do not rate a vehicle until I have 30K+ miles on it but I just had to share my pleasure with this vehicle with you. I currently have 8K miles on this SE with no problems. I'm a salesman and I'm on the road alot for my job hauling good size samples. Not as much room as my previous 4runner (which my wife now drives) but enough room to get the job done. Back seat room is larger than you would think and the rear split seats fold down flat which works well for me. Really a nice ride, fun to drive, gas mileage as advertised, and the 4motion has really been a champ in this tough Midwest winter. I drove about everything in this class but I kept coming back to the Tiguan. Overall still in love. Like others really enjoy the zip and the handling. Would like more range of motion in seat adjustments, especially thigh support. Panoramic roof is very nice, but noisy in any position (compared to Acura's small SUV). Haven't tested the 4motion much but on wet road has done very well, very stable. I would like to see more audio controls on steering wheel, such as change mode and channel. I loved the looks and still do, but I have had this thing in the shop 4 times: transmission, engine light, major vibration at highway speed - twice. I spent a great deal of time researching before I bought a VW. I wish I had paid more attention to a few reviews that I had seen referencing quality problems. I feel like I have no choice but to sell before the warranty runs out.I just picked up my new 2009 VW Tiguan SE 4Motion! What a great little CUV. Yes, I compared it with all the other little utes. Really it came down to this or the Mitsu Outlander for me in terms of features for the money. That was a great car also, but just can't compare to the build quality or upscale feel of the Tiguan. If I was 20 again, I would go with the Outlander. Now in my 30's, the Tiguan's the ride for me. It was hard to find one with the new Nav system (which is super cool) and the giant sunroof (also super cool), but I am glad I did. Has just the right balance of power and fuel economy, but it is a blast to drive. Drives a lot more like a car than a RAV4. Test drive one!The Tiguan is comfortable, easy to drive,well thought out, reliable. Makes road trips something to look forward to. VW got this right kinda reminds me of the fun I had with my old VW bus.Coming from a 2002 Toyota RAV4 which was 100% reliable, I can say this so far has not been the SUV I imagined. The test drive went well at Potamkin VW. I like the interior and exterior design- typical clean design. The interior has a few cheap pieces but you get used to it. On par with the Toyota. The inside is quite roomy but the seats are not so comfortable. Cargo area is useless. With 4k miles- the power around town is peppy but it lacks power on the highway. I also notice the gas goes quicker than expected. It should average 21 MPG and I barely see 15MPG average. On the highway I have seen 23 with the cruise set at 60MPH. Around town it dips to 12-13MPG. Overall, not the best small SUV.Just drove home our brand new Tiguan! Extremely happy with our purchase. Solid car with quiet ride and comfortable drive. The power of 2.0 liter turbo, compared to other Crossover/SUV's in its class, outperforms the blender-type engines of the smaller 4 cyl. competitors. The full sunroof with automatic screen/shade ads a touch of class to the features. Body style says versatile yet sporty. Plenty of room for stroller or Golf Bags with the fold down seats. After countless hours of research on the internet and test driving all options, this is the one! Get your hands on a Tiguan before showrooms run out (we got the last one on the floor for the trim we wanted).Owned 3 mo./3000 mi in gld-metallic. Researched all SUVs in class; was wowed by Tiguan. Interior styling in class by itself; handling/comfort exceptional. Cabin durability very impressive. Passengers rave about roominess/ styling. Ride not smooth on freeways, rather bumpy at times. Novelty retractable screen panel under sunroof does not fully block overhead sun glare. ?Trunk? storage tray on website never materialized - rear underneath storage very ltd. Headrest has no tilt adjustment (only vertical) and tips head in uncomfortable position if you lean back. Miss my Acura?s Bose stereo; the sound of the system is 6 of 10 at best. Main center console storage could have been expanded.I've driven mine for 2000 miles so far and it's been great. High build quality, very good organizational design, quick pickup, decent gas mileage, excellent handling and braking, quiet, top crash safety ratings. No complaints!...and its already in the shop. Evidently the radiator fan doesn't come on when the car is idling. Its quite a sight to see the engine temperature gauge go from 190 to 260 within 3 minutes. Another example of VW's world renown "quality" or just an isolated incident? Who knows. Just be aware. Up to that point we were waiting to be towed to the nearest dealership, I would have to agree with everyone else's initial impressions. It seems like a quality car, handles like a much smaller car, and is just a pleasure to drive and use. The tight design of the exterior really belies what is a comfortable interior. Not quite sure why everybody wants to see leatherette as an option. Who wants this fake stuff? I'm so glad I have the cloth seats. Neither cold in winter nor hot in summer (this is a blessing in Chicago) plus it's got heated seats. I love this car though it eats a lot of gas compared to the AUDI A4 2.0T CVT. I drove 30 mpg with same engine in the Audi and get barely 23/24 with the Tiguan. Tranny does not help at all. CVT or DSG (VW) S-tronic (AUDI) is the way to go. AISIN tranny from the Tiggy eats up more gas, also my AUDI was FWD which was more gas saving but this is why I bought the 4motion (just in time b4 winter). Otherwise I'm REALLY PLEASED (so far)Just picked up my wife's 2009 Alpine Gray tiguan with nav and panoramic roof. Wow! This vehicle is fast . Stops on a dime. And is surprisingly comfortable. My wife keeps referring to it as "awesome". She loves it . It is a gti in disguise! In my opinion. Build quality is superb! VW and Audi have a winner on their hands in my opinion. Not for the faint of heart! A must drive before you buy anything else!We test drove all the small SUVs out there and when we drove the Tiguan there was no comparison. First off I noticed the power was better than even the competition's V-6 models. The fit and finish is exceptional...I love German engineering! The handling is great, the cabin is very quiet, the sunroof is nothing short of spectacular. We bought this vehicle for my wife and I usually drive a BMW but love any opportunity to drive the Tiguan. I don't have to use the manual shift feature as this transmission shifts beautifully in the automatic shift mode. Had this vehicle 3 months now and am looking forward to driving it this winter. Just plain love the fun drive!It has the same 2.0 turbo and transmission that were in my 2006 Passat which provides all the acceleration you need along with a smooth performing 6 speed transmission. Also has the same excellent standard radio/CD/mp3 that was in my Passat. Matter of fact any Passat 2006-8 owners will find a number of similarities in the Tiguan. While the SE and SEL with options might be a little pricy the Tiguan S with automatic is a bargain considering all the standard features and build quality. I tried some of the other 4 cylinders with a few miles better mpg, but they didn't stack up to the 2.0T; and even though Consumer Reports rates the Forrester higher, you have to spend about $2000 more than thI purchased the S auto with 17" wheels about 2 weeks ago. Love the car. It is the only SUV I know of that has good visibility all around. I traded a Nissan Rogue because of its poor visibility. It is fast, comfortable, quiet, handles well, has nice standard features for the entry level model. And I think it is one of the sharpest looking SUVs on the road. Too soon to judge gas mileage. Will report on with next report. I have the Alpine Gray Metallic, very nice color. If you are looking at small SUVs you must put this on your list. Was able to purchase under invoice.I love the 2.0 Turbo in the Tiguan! Had the same engine in my 2006 Passat and love both the engine and transmission. The transmission is smooth and the turbo gives you that needed boast in passing or that extra acceleration you need when you?re entering a busy highway, and beats out all the competitors when it comes to acceleration. A little pricey, but the Tiguan S isn?t badly priced considering all the standard features and the quality of the build. The interior is nicely done and has actual aluminum trim vice the aluminum looking plastic you find in the competitors. Didn?t ever care for the color red, but the Black Cherry Metallic (which I purchased) is exceptional.I was researching the market for several months and nothing really convinced me until I came across the Tiguan. I have one for about two months now and I'm loving every minute of it! It is fun to drive, the engine is wonderful, a lot of small features that make this the perfect car. Plus it has the highest possible safety rating and it looks just amazing. Fuel economy is actually better than advertised, 20/27. Great car with many usable features. Drives great and has plenty of pick up to merge onto highway. The build quality is excellent. Owned an Audi A- 4 cabriolet before and the panoramic sunroof is excellent. The SEL package has all the need to have comfort features. It is a head turner all the time. The cargo room is plenty for almost all your shopping needs. The Sirius radio is a pleasant surprise as we haven't played any CD's yet. The Wild Cherry color and 18" wheels make for a good looking car. Spend many hours researching the cars in this class and the Tiguan won even though it is more expensive. The gas mileage has been a little low however the foot in the turbo may the cause.Purchased two weeks ago and have been very happy with the quality and features of the SEL package. It stands out from the competitors with its exterior and interior design. Get many comments about it whenever we are out in it. Drives and rides very good plus the 2.0 gives good acceleration when merging on the highway. The roof was not on the wish list but is a nice feature. Spent hours researching all the other competitors models and felt this Tiguan stood out. So far only one gas fill up and was mainly city driving, gas mileage to be determined. The build quality seems to be very tight, the heated seats are very comfortable, it drives great and has excellent power. So far a great buy. I was in the market to buy a new car. I'm only 21 but I do my research & I wasn't about to blow my money and money that my grandma had given me for a car. It came down to a Vue 08 or a Tiguan the Vue was roughly $4000 cheaper but after long nights of thinking about the reviews on this website on the vue and the tiguan I decided to get the tiguan & bought one on 9/12/08. I'm so glad I made the right choice it is so much fun to drive and so far I have only had one problem which is the sat. radio & it has nothing to do with vw it is some technical issue with Sirius that is supposed to be fixed in a week..I really have nothing but good things to say. Great SUV! I will write an updated review laterI've put a little under 3000 miles on mine and love it so far. After hearing everyone here rave about the sunroof I kinda wish I would've bought the next trim level up, but it was a little pricier. Also I think the bigger wheels look better. Fuel economy is good for this size vehicle, but if they ever bring the TDI version, that will be awesome... I don't know what the MPG would be on that, but the TDI Jetta gets close to 44 MPG! I would consider trading the gas for the diesel with those kind of numbers. Just recently got my Tiguan and what a smooth and zippy ride this is! No problems except the hazard light button was defective and nonfunctional. I'm about to go get it fixed at the dealership. I just hope they got their electronics problems fixed by now.This is a solid crossover SUV. I have the SE version. Rides like a dream - very, very smooth. Features are great, nearly on par with BMW or MB. Interior is also well done. Seats are very comfortable for all passengers, and there's plenty of legroom in the back. My MPG has been higher than advertised, I'm getting about 20/28 instead of 18/24. We love the the Tiguan we purchased last May, so we have another on order for my wife (White Gold with the tan leather. Gorgeous!) We spent months driving other cars in the small sports ute category (RAV 4, CR-V, the new '09 Forester XT, we found the category to be pretty bland. Fortunately, I drove a Tiguan when I was on a business trip in Europe, and wow! It had me after the first 2 miles of drive time. The interior has been thoughtfully put through finishing school. Elegant design, well-placed instrument clusters. The inside actually has more front/rear leg room and head room than our mid- sized Jeep Grand Cherokee. Plenty of pep, and we're averaging 28.5 mpg! My wife was in the market for an SUV, but still wanted good gas mileage along with the utility. We shopped around a bit, drove Honda, Toyota, Acura, GM, etc. Although pricing was a little better in some other brands, the quality and fun factor did not even compare to the Tiguan. My wife went from a Camry to this and did not even look back! Great SUV, good price range for options, safe and a very peppy engine for a 4 banger! Outdoes many other brands V6 crossover SUVs.This is the first vehicle that i have owned where i feel people are looking at me as i am driving down the road. It's an unexplainable experience. I have plenty of room for everything i need and i feel safe and secure for me and my family when we are out on the road.So it's been a month since I got my Tiguan SE 4Motion in Blue exterior and Charcoal interior. I just can't get over the joy of driving it. For it's size it can handle the road so secure. Inside there is a lot of room (and I'm a tall guy). My legs and head are very comfortable. All the instrumentation is reachable and well placed for visualization. The construction of the car is very solid. Feels like one piece. Mileage is a blessing, but if you keep testing the turbo it can go down.I've officially put 1600 mi on my new Tig, and I'm so happy I made the right choice on getting a Tig, it handles so smooth and peppy at the same time. I really wanted the 6 speed manual trans and TDI, but couldn't wait. My dealer told me that they won't be available in the US 'til next year.I've had the tig for a week. What a joy to drive! Tiguan just won the highest safety rating in crash tests. Amazing acceleration for a small SUV. If you like German styling, engineering. Don't wait. This vehicle deliversI've had my Tiguan almost three weeks now and it's been a great vehicle thus far. I'm getting a little less than 25mpg using 87 Octane (regular unleaded). I owned a 1997 Jeep Wrangler previous to this vehicle and the comfort level and gas mileage can't even be categorized between the two vehicles. This Tiguan S model has some real zip with the turbo engine in it! You can't go wrong with this vehicle if you're looking for a good, small compact SUV. I've been researching this next car purchase for well over a year. I'm so glad we waited to pull the trigger until after the release of the Tiguan. After researching and driving the competition, the Tiguan was the clear choice for us. Love pretty much everything about this car and could not be happier with our purchase.My husband and I researched and drove every vehicle in this class. In our opinion, the Tiguan is simply the better vehicle all the way around. Build quality, styling, design, interior layout, handling, braking and acceleration (the turbo was smooth and peppy) are all excellent. I've been eying up this vehicle since I first heard about it back in March. In my opinion this is the best designed vehicle in it's class although I do feel its price tag is slightly above what it should be. The Tiguan overall performs great and has a lot more room than it might appear from the outside. I'm very happy with this car!I traded in my 04 Passat for the Tiguan. The Tiguan is so much fun to drive. It's roomy and has already carried large loads from the hardware store. My only complaint, as was my complaint with the Passat, is the cup holder for passengers in the back seat. It completely fell apart the first time it was used. I'm totally stunned!! The gas mileage of my Tiguan rivals that of my Honda but the build quality far exceeds ANY vehicle in its class. I feel like I'm driving a near luxury vehicle. I was very nervous about paying cash for a vehicle, but now if I could I'd buy one for everyone in my family. Safe, stable (feels like its glued to the road) and just out and out FUN TO DRIVE!I have had my Tiguan for just under 2 months and I have put over 8k miles on it. It rides great, has get up and go power when needed. After test driving every crossover/suv in this size I couldn't find one that I was willing to into debt for until I drove this car. Love at first drive.I have been waiting for this SUV. I have always driven VW's, I traded my 2007 Rabbit for the 2009 Tiguan and I am thrilled with my purchase!!! I actually went back to VW when buying the Tiguan. My first VW, a GTI VR6, had a lot of small problems and a major problem with the computer. However, nothing comes close to German style and especially the interior comfort and technology. My favorite feature is the sunroof which allows for a very nice view of the sky for both front and rear passengers. The gas mileage is respectable compared to the Mercury Mountaineer I traded in. The response to the accelerator is also respectable. Be careful. They don't tell you. The antenna sticks up off the back of the roof 8-10 inches. Doesn't fit in my garage. Also you will have trouble putting 4 sets of golf clubs in trunk horizontally with 4 passengers. The build quality on the Tiguan is amazing for a car in this price range. The car looks fantastic and handles exceptionally well with 4motion. The 2.0 Turbo is much quicker that I expected and the car is very quite on the highway. After having it for five days and putting over 560miles on it, I can say that this automobile is fantastic. I took it home Thursday of last week (6/19/2008) and took it to Va Beach Saturday morning. Being that it is the first 500 miles, I didn't go over 65, and I was getting between 31.5 and 33 mpg!! That is amazing. There is the "recommended" premium octane fuel, but you can put regular. I will tell you that paying the extra 4-5 bucks (at the most) for prem per tank is well worth it. The drive is comfortable, even with four adults. The cabin is very quiet and the seat comfort is just fantastic. Plenty of room for both driver & passenger along with back passengers.I drove just about every SUV in this class over a two month period and the Tiguan is by far the best. The Tiguan looks great inside and out and even without leather seats is very comfortable. The difference between this car and others like the Ford Escape or Toyota Rav4 is the way it handles. The drive is more like a car than an SUV. I thought the Honda CR-V was a very nice vehicle too but it was lacking any kind of pick up. Overall I am very happy to have purchased the Tiguan. Some dealers have said that they are not offering any deals for a number of reasons, but I was given a couple thousand off the sticker price.This is the most amazing value in the small SUV marketplace. The car is almost as fun to drive as our Mini ! The car sounds sporty, and looks like it racing along even parked at the curb. Drives like sporty car not an SUV. Gas mileage around town is 26 mpg and with gas price sky high we are very happy ! The quality and engineering are excellent as is to be expected from V.W. Lots of thoughtful features. But, driving is what's it all about, and the Tiguan is sure to put a smile on your face ! I wanted to buy an suv for the longest time, but with current gas prices... not too much of a chance UNTIL the TIGUAN... great on gas, super comfortable. Pretty quick, lots and lots of space... I couldn't be any happier with my purchase, worth the wait! =)I looked at many vehicles from sedans to SUVs before deciding on the Tiguan to replace by Pilot (including the new Pilot). I decided sitting a little higher in traffic and all-wheel drive were important - hence my choice of another SUV. The Tiguan is fantastic -- quick acceleration, fun to drive and fuel economy of 28.5 mpg average on my first 2 tanks of regular gas. I choose the SEL for the added features and am not disappointed that I did. There is lots of room, and as a big guy I appreciate that. The back is tight for 3 adults, but would be fine for shorter distances - a luxury ride for 2 in the back. I am looking forward to better mpg, and am very satisfied with my Tiguan! Fast and Fun to drive. Tiguan handles like a sports car. Turbo charged acceleration is great.Tiptronic transmission is fun to play with. Fuel economy on the first tank for city driving was 23mpg,looking forward to a road trip soon. Lots of cargo room with rear seats folded down. Ride is very comfortable and quiet.visibility is excellent, much better than anything I have test driven. Easily fits in my garage and tight parking spaces. Performance, Styling, features and fuel economy are what won me over.Great response, fun to drive, many extras come standard. Too early to tell reliability but looks to be well thought out, preproduction much endurance testing and preformed well in all test I have researched.Well worth waiting for. We were inches away from buying a different SUV (compact) So glad we waited. If you have ever driven a GTI, or Jetta with the 2.0T, this SUV is just that but you sit up higher, and it is AWD. Seats are very comfy and supportive. Lots of room in the rear sets. The icing on the cake is the panoramic moonroof WOW!!!! and has an extra electric screen that will cover the open moonroof. Also handles bumps in the road very.I have been driving a Tiguan for a little over a week now and it rocks. Very versatile, tons of room for people and luggage. The panoramic sunroof is superb this car was really worth the wait and I am get just on 30 mpg! Get one!Own this car for one month. It is truly fun to drive Passat compare to other imports. Love the look inside and out. It drives like 6 cylinder car, thanks to turbo. Consequently, it consumes gas like 6 cylinder. I average 22 to 23 mi/gallon on 60 freeway/40 local. My old 2000 Maxima was better than that! I had to check the car with a local dealership for rattling noise from driver side glove box and door panel. It was fixed once and came back. So it's been at service twice for the same issue. Hope this problem won't come back. Super vehicle especially for the price. Standard features, build quality and performance is something I would expect in a much higher end vehicle, The turbo makes the gas pedal like a hair trigger on a gun, the attention to detail and quality materials is far superior to this cars competition. Something as simple as an umbrella storage compartment built into the drivers door are the small touches that really make the vehicle a standout aside from what Ive mentioned.This car is smooth, quiet and comfy. My wife, daughter and I are looking forward to getting out on the open road with this. This car breezes down the local freeway and streets effortlessly. Handline is precise\crisp and drives rock solid like a heavier car. The only real drawback thus far is the lack of bluetooth which is optional on Passat but comes standard in other cars. Other than that, it could use a bit more power, but for a mid size sedan the fuel economy and power are both excellent. Comfortable, plenty of leg room for a 6'5" driver with some to spare.Two months after purchase, I was at the service station due to some rattling sound coming from my front bumper.Come to find out that something was coming loose. The following month, I was at the service station again due to a hissing sound that comes on each initial pull out.After these issues were fixed for free of-course, I have enjoyed every ounce of my car. Everyone who sees my Passat all say the same thing.."wow, your car is beautiful". Some think its a BMW at first sight while some say they never ever considered a VW until seeing mine. German engineering rocks but they need to understand that Americans love comfort and convenience together with reliability.This is my 3rd generation Passat and my 5th VW car in the last 25 years. I have owned also recent models of Nissan Maxima, Toyota Camry, and Honda Accord. I have driven during my business trips in Europe various Mercedes cars (C200 and E300)and BMW (300, 500 series). Similarly, I drove in USA Lexus and Infinity midsize sedans. I find the Passat the most sensible combination of performance, comfort, and value. You get Audi engineering (on par with BMW and Mercedes) at discount price. The gas mileage (34-35 miles/galon) is better than that of my Toyota Camry 2005 (XLE 4). As for the reliability, it is better than my Camry 2005 so far Bought this car on the basis of owning a 2006 jetta, was not disappointed.The fuel mileage meets or exceeds the epa sticker,2l. 4 cyl drives like a larger engine.VW Passat is a great feat of German engineering. Autobahn for all, after all :-) The exterior is to fall in love for, interior is good and minimalistic, too but the drive feel... The steering is speed sensitive and I absolutely loved it! But... The speedometer has small numbers on it that are hard to read, so it's not clear from a quick glimpse on it whether you're making 60 or 70 km/h. The transmission is lovely, very responsive and seamless. You really cannot feel it but the engine is unrefined. Usually, I'm a big fan of smaller engines because of their efficiency, and almost limitless possibilities for improvement. But turbo lag kills me. Not responsive at all and jolty!!!I needed to move into a larger car. Previous car was 2003 Jetta TDI sedan and I really loved it. It got great mileage and was fun to drive but not quite large enough for a growing family. We decided on the Passat Wagon because we were in no way getting a minivan nor SUV. We wanted the performance and handling of a car and not the bulk or stigma of a van or SUV. It was down to the Passat or Subaru Outback. In the end we went with the Passat as VW bank was offering 60 mos at 0%. While there may be posts out there complaining about quality, we've not seen any issues yet. The same issues were reported for my Jetta and over 5 years, few of those issues ever arose. I love the way this car drives. It drives better than most 6 cyl vehicles I've driven. The interior knobs have a somewhat cheap-looking appearance. Overall a good bang for your buck. In general, a reasonable price/performance ratio. The reliability is bad, automatic windows, brakes, and instrument panel are replaced.This is our third Passat having bought a new 1997 diesel and 2004 diesel. We love the diesels but gave up on VW ever getting the Passat diesel into North America. VW always seems to be three steps behind the marketing curve. We are quite pleased with our 2009, even though it isn't a diesel and we certainly miss that mileage. It handles beautifully but is noisier than our 2004 due to the low profile tires. We bought new tires and went one size up and the noise decreased. Our big gripe is that VW dropped Homelink from the Passat but not the Passat CC. Another braindead action by VW. Their response to my inquiry: "Our marketing plan for North America does not include the diesel or Homelink."This car is really a pleasant surprise. Just came out of an Infinity M45. Had to downsize lifestyle and found the perfect car.This car drives great,and is big enough for a family of five. No car can match the features this car has for the money.I recently bought a VW Passat 'Komfort' wagon for my wife. The car has been great so far. After 5 days in my Lexus, it's fun to drive my wife's car on the weekend. I really can't ever say I've felt that way about my other cars. If VW can solve some of it's past reliability issues ( and it looks like they are trying hard to do so) I think middle America will 'rediscover' the brand.Great mileage, super low emissions, big enough to carry lots of junk, quiet for a diesel. Acceleration leaves a lot ot be desiredOutstanding engineering, safety, and quality. Fantastic value. Excellent purchase experience. Free scheduled maintenance for 3 years. Fun to drive. Getting 34 mpg at 70 mph. VW is the new BMW!I have a BMW X5 and traded a Merc C280 4 Matic for the Passat. The Passat is the exact size of an E350, but half the price. You give up rain sensing wipers, memory seats, automatic headlights and a power rear sunshade. You get just as good build quality, similar performance in crash tests, 10 more MPG, free scheduled maintenance for 3 years, and $30,000 in your pocket. The sales experience was much better than Mercedes. I have no regrets. I love this car. What will I do with my $30,000? Good time to invest.So far, very few problems with 09 Passat compared to 06 previously owned. Small rattle, ipod adapter issue dealership addressed immediately. 3200 miles driven since purchased. Keep checking my oil to make sure don't have same issue as 06 model. Fun to drive compared to Nissan, Honda, and Toyota family sedans. Unfortunately, my experience is that you trade performance, fit/finish for reliability. Keeping my fingers crossed...Came out of a Volvo XC70. This car has personality and is much more fun to drive. Comfort is good. Good acceleration. Mileage is better then sticker. Easily get 30-32 at 70 mph. 33-34 at 60 mph. Average fuel mileage is 26mpg. Kids love the rear door window shade. I am 6'1" and like the front seats. Live in area that doesn't have may Passat Wagons and get many looks. In my family we own an 09 Rabbit and 08 Mazda 3. They are truly both fantastic cars. Both are equipped pretty much the same and they both cost the same (just about 17K). My wife drives the Mazda and she loves it however I am a good size guy and I find the Rabbit's seat goes back further and has more thigh support (and overall room). The Mazda gets better gas mileage but the Rabbit has better acceleration so in my opinion the lower MPG is a fair trade. Both handle extremely well and are a lot of fun to drive however the Rabbit is a little more quiet overall. The Mazda has one of the nicest stearing wheels I have ever seen on any car.Quick, even at a 6500ft Colorado altitude. Precise handling. Precise- shifting 5-speed gearbox. Typical excellent German craftsmanship -- inside and outside -- with obvious attention to detail. Roomy. Lots of features that are "package upgrages" on other brands. Airbags everywhere, traction/stability management, and other safety features. Good MPGs for the HP/torque. On top of all that, driving-thrill-for-the-investment can't be beaten.Quiet, competent, handles well, and is fun to drive. Great quality, fit, and finish.Car has seen all types of driving and has fared extremely well. The engine in the car is well suited to most driving situations and the abundance of power and torque plus an engine that enjoys revving provides an acceleration not found in competitors, the five speed manual has short throws and positive feel with good clutch feedback. Suspension is based on the sportier GTI, giving the Rabbit surefooted dynamics while providing a comfortable ride even over harsh roads, the standard ESP provides an added safety net. No problems while owning the vehicle, and fuel economy has averaged approximately 28 miles per gallon, while full tanks on the freeway can net up to 33 miles per gallon. I love driving this car, It's really quiet, smooth and pretty quick. Plus this car handles really well. Best of all is the gas mileage. I get about 26mpg all city traffic, and about 29-30 with mixed city/highway driving. The sticker estimated mpg is way low at 21/28.Well built with more than expected standard features. Excellent performance and safety features. Interior of car feels like a much larger car. Average mileage has been 27 mpg in all around driving. Very quiet interior and smooth 6 spd tiptronic auto trans. I am extremely happy after 2 months with this gem.When it was time to trade in my old car (a '95), I looked at nearly all of the cars in the $15-20K market. Drove the Mazda3, Vibe, Versa, Matrix, Civic, xD... they all kind of felt the same. I had resigned myself to a functional compact with few features that I could "make do" with; then I drove the Rabbit. WHOA - it was like finding religion. There is absolutely no car in this class that is nearly as fun to drive. Plus even the base model is packed with extras. The interior is refined with quality materials. I got the 2-door 5-speed manual and I love it. I've never owned a VW before, but the Rabbit has definitely made me a believer.I purchased a 2009 VW Rabbit, after looking at other cars in its class, including the Mitsubish Lancer GTS, Mazda 3, and Subaru Impreza. While I think I could have been happy with any of the other cars mentioned, I truly love my Rabbit. I could not justify the additional price of the GTI for a few fractions of a second faster from 0-60 mph, and the added costs for premium fuel and insurance. The Rabbit will satisfy all but the most power hungry. Fuel economy is mediocre, but a fair trade off for power and performance. The Rabbit has the best build quality, not just in intelligent design, but in the material used. It does not feel like a sub $20,000 car, nor does it drive like one.Just purchased brand new rabbit 2009 5 min after leaving dealership check engine light goes on when trying to merge on the highway car lost power pressing gas & car actually slowing down lasted almost a minute not long but very scary just the same. Drove it back to dealership they gave a rented car while they diagnose the problem not a good start especially since its brand new I'm hoping this is the first and last problem..I was looking for a little hatchback. I picked the Rabbit over the Mazda 3 and Imprezza because it was more fun driving, cost less, and is supposed to get a little better mileage. It also got great CR ratings. I've had four people in it a few times and there seems to be enough room. The car reminds me of the civic hatchbacks from the early 90s. This bunny is a fun and comfortable ride even at German autobahn speeds (+100mph). The bunny is just as roomy as my '03 Passat and easier to park in Europe's tight parking garages. I had one rough start on a chilly morning (+5F), maybe that Knock sensor acting up, don't know for sure because it cleared itself up in a few seconds. I was soaked getting in once by water pooled on the roof, run-off made it too my arm and leg before I could close the door. Need to be mindful of passenger side rear blind spot. I have driven 10,000 kms since Sep 2008 and I generally find my Rabbit fun to drive. On 4 separate occasions though I have had the experience of putting my foot on the accelerator and got ZERO response. Fortunately, to date, this has only occurred from idle (ie car was stationary). Having read your review I will take it to the dealership again and ask them to check the Knock Sensor. ThanksThe Rabbit is a very enjoyable car to drive. I've put 8000+ miles on it so far and find it both comfortable and fun. The torque supplied in the low range is a great change from most newer cars that save the power to above 5000rpms. My wife and I fight over driving this car daily, rather than the SUV we have.I just got my 2009 Rabbit 3 weeks ago and I mostly love it. It has a cozy feel, the dash is easy to use, the lights are distinct and easy to read, and it handles nicely, even in snow (which we've had about every day since I got it). It has a jaunty overall feel and I am quite pleased overall. The sales staff was also really informed and helpful.The best way to describe the Rabbit is: solid. The steering and braking are nicely weighted; the doors and hatch make a nice "thunk" when closed; acceleration is smooth and strong. Spacious for a compact car.I went from a 4 door Tacoma to the rabbit. Never again will I buy a truck. Fits my 6,3 self, wife, and newborn perfectly. Awesome display, speakers, ride is sooo quite and smooth. All these complaints on the mph, I have had no such issues. Nor have I had any issues with blind spots. A blast to drive slow or fast. Aux hook up for the ipod is always a plus, satellite radio is an option on some. Auto door locks after 30 seconds is a great for safety.I could not be more pleased with the bang for buck total. Its quick, fast, quiet, comfortable and stable fit and finish are way above price point. For me there is no comparable car in this class also not many on road that is dominated by Asian vehicles.I had a 2006 Rabbit for a short time (it was totaled in an accident), which influenced my decision to buy my 2009 Rabbit recently. The Rabbit feels like a solid, well-built car. It's a fun car to drive, with its 170 horsepower and the 6-speed Tiptronic transmission. The controls are easy to use, and the layout is logical. The seats are comfortable, and the interior is roomy. I like the overall look of the Rabbit, inside and out. I like the features, too. The stereo sounds great and is easy to use. Standard Electronic Stability Program is a nice touch. The engine is smooth and seems quieter than my 2006 Rabbit. Fuel economy could be better. iPod operation is buggy and not intuitive.Just went from an 07 Corolla to the 09 Rabbit. Couldn't be happier. Great performing and sounding engine, nice handling with perfect body roll, extremely solid feel on the highway, fun to drive, roomy, excellent safety features, decent (but not great) stereo, nice transmission, and generally good looks make it a winner. The Corolla is a good, but very pedestrian car. The Rabbit literally blows it away in the "fun to drive" category and comes with all the standard safety features that make the difference. I love driving this car. I went from a pickup truck to the Rabbit. I didn't realize what a dog my truck was until driving the Rabbit every day. It's quick, shifts great, handles tight, fast lane changes are easy and smooth. I wanted a Mini Cooper S and the Rabbit gives me that sporty agile ride. I would not trade hp for better mileage. The engine is Great. Took a road trip on Thanksgiving and enjoyed the car. The cruise controls and audio controls were very intuitive and after a couple hundred miles I didn't miss them not being in the steering wheel. Its a very nice wheel so don't not buy the car just because the controls are not in it. You will forget about it quickly enough!I traded in a 2001 Outback and was afraid the Rabbit would feel so much smaller-- it's not at all. The mpg is better than the Outback, even with 1 more cylinder. I was expecting entry level features and was surprised by the thought that was put into the design. I drive out to the mountains a lot and am pleasantly surprised at how my bunny scampers up a steep grade. I had a Rabbit diesel in the 80s and am so glad I thought to try a Rabbit again. I couldn't be more pleased. Excellent car that handles extremely well on the road. Negotiates curves like a charm. I got this after wrecking my 07 Mazda 3 (through no fault of my own). The Mazda was a good car, but this one blows it out of the water. The Rabbit offers a smoother ride, a tighter turn radius, and generally a better grip on the road. Also, the Mazda is more expensive if you add all the features that is standard in the Rabbit. Its worth mentioning that because of this car's higher safety rating, my insurance went down significantly. From the outside, the car looks simple, but in my opinion that simplicity gives it a more distinguished look. The laser welded body is a big plus. My White little Rabbit dominates the small car genre easily in Sport. Test driving other small American and Japanese cars felt like a waste of time after riding in VW's 09 Rabbit. The Focus is hard to focus on after you are behind the wheel of a fully powered Rabbit.Great little car, it feels very solid compared to other small cars in class. Independent suspension, great 6 speed transmission, 5 cylinder engine, add up to a lot of value for about 18K. Uncluttered instrument panel. Drivers seat great for taller drivers. Gets up and goes when it needs to.I wanted a small sedan. One test drive of Civic and Corolla and they were out. Those sheep need to look around a little. Mazda3 is a good car and better value, but this one just "felt" like it was built better. I picked the Rabbit over the Jetta because of the chrome on the front and the fake leather seats, I just couldn't do it. The real stuff is better, why bother? Also Rabbits are unusual around here. I've enjoyed the car so far. It really IS fun to drive. Plenty of power. NO exterior "loud & obnoxious" things about it. A real knock out in red. I can't believe this car is not more popular. Very nice! I love my 2009 Rabbit. Its fun, it's swift and surprisingly roomy. It fits 2 adults in the back quite nicely. I don't know who the previous reviewer was trying to fit in his 2 door! I have had 3 girlfriends squeeze in the back! I wanted all the standard safety features. Mazda 3 does not offer ESP standard. Even after reading all the bad reviews of the previous models with electronic breakdowns, i still got the Bunny and I love it!This car is an amazing car to get. I paid 17,325 and got a lot of excellent features. This car feels good to drive in, and when your already tired from driving, the car wont get you more tired. 10 speaker German sound, will wake you up. For a 2009, this is more likely the best car to get. Gas is the issue, but for the performance and comfort, it's well worth it. I am a mechanic and it seems to that this car is excellent for every day driver. Engine temp stays at 190*f and even on 12 hour drives it does. Highest mpg was 28 so far. This car has the same concept of the VW golf. But way betterThe handling is still a little unresponsive, but VW definitely put some thought into this car. Fuel mileage is a little bad but coming from 20/27 I'm good. There are little easter eggs in this car that a good run-through should show. Stereo system could be improved, as it sounds like I'm listening through two old computer speakers, but who buys the base and expects premium sound? Radio reception and sound are much better than I expected. The back seat is big enough to fit maybe one person comfortably, but don't through two adults back there. Also you don't even notice the lack of arm rest if you decide to opt out of the iPod dock. But that's more a personal preference. All in all, get it.I do a lot of serious driving, and over the years I have found that I need a car that will act like a car and perform like a car, when I demand from it. The Rabbit does just that. You're not bulking around a huge vehicle, and so you are able to zip in and out of the rest of the traffic. The 5 cylinder engine with its 170 hp is plenty powerful enough and the car has a whole lot of get-up-and-go. I got the 5 speed manual version of the Rabbit, because, let's face it, it's the only way to truly drive a VW. You're in command at all times. The air conditioning is great, and it has an excellent 10 speaker quality stereo system, with ipod connect and in-dash CD changer. You need this car.I believe the Rabbit is the best buy for the buck. My wife has an A-4 3.2 and this is like a cousin. The German feel. Great acceleration and just simply fun to drive. The Corolla and Civic appear very refined but are just mini town cars. Compare and you have the most features for your dollar. ESP standard in 09. 